There is a little bit of a handing off
of the baton here from trade and taxes
to the Fed. The Fed shouldn't be cutting
rates. They're not in the position to
cut rates.
>> I expect Fed's playbook isn't going to
change a whole lot.
>> Risk assets don't really care as long as
the idea of rate cuts keeps, you know,
keeps being alive. That is totally fine.
>> The question really is, of course,
around the September meeting. This is
Bloomberg Surveillance with Jonathan
Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and An Marie
Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. For our
audience worldwide, Bloomberg
surveillance starts right now. Coming
into Wednesday, it's Fed decision day.
>> I'm too late, pal. Cuz he's always too
late. Am I allowed to appoint myself at
the Fed?
>> Anybody would be better than J.
>> He's a knucklehead.
>> Well, I'd love him to lower interest
rates, but other than that, what can I
tell you? Fed chair JP Pal stepping into
an uncomfortable spotlight following
months of pressure from the White House
to cut interest rates. Investors will be
looking for some signs of disscent on
the Femc. The decision just hours await.
>> So, we're going to get a lineup of
guests this morning telling us the Fed
meeting. We're going to anticipate it so
much and they are not going to consider
it as important as the earnings and as
the economic data coming out this week.
But everyone's watching. We'll be
actually on air at that time. So, if you
want to watch us, go ahead. Uh the
reason why is because of the political
ramifications of this. I'm sure that
there will be one President Trump also
watching this meeting. The key question
is how does he get messaged at a time
where they're likely to hold rates? At a
time where the president of the United
States keeps saying too late is holding
rates unnecessarily tight, terrible,
horrible. Let's see what he does. Let's
see what the White House responds with
when they do hold rates steady.
>> The next meeting after this one is
September 17th. We've got two jobs
reports, two CPI reports. The chairman
of the Federal Reserve has every single
reason in the world to make this very
very boring later on this afternoon. And
there's a couple of individuals in the
FOMC that might do their best to make it
entertaining.
>> Well, entertaining for one person uh in
terms of campaigning to be the next Fed
chair and that is Michelle Bowman as
well as Chris Waller. This would be the
greatest descent on the FOMC going back
to 1993. And it hearkens back to the
1980s when the Reagan White House kind
of stuck a couple people in the uh on
the Fed's board in order to skew things
and you've had some disscent and it was
a much more kind of volatile committee.
Are we heading back to those days? Is
that actually appropriate? And this I
think is an important conversation. It's
one thing to say it's politically
motivated. It's another thing to say
that on Wall Street there is incredible
disagreement about where we are in the
economic and inflationary cycle and an
incredible disagreement on how much we
should cut rates. As much as we want to
cast this all in a political light and
properly uh it also has a big uh
economic debate under underpinning it.
>> The debate is actually interesting on
both sides of the demand, it's not just
about inflation and tariffs on the labor
market. If you go to the statement and
we'll be looking at the statement this
afternoon when the Federal Reserve says
the labor market is solid. You've got a
Fed governor coming into this meeting
making the case that the labor market is
on the edge and I'm looking for any
subtle change in language in that
statement later on this afternoon. How
does a Fed chair that has designed his
entire chairmanship on on uh consensus
building deal with disscent in a
graceful way? That will be a very
interesting moment at the press
conference and in the statement.
>> What a day we've got coming up for you.
A Federal Reserve decision and news
conference with Chairman Pal. Lots of
earnings and lots of economic data.
Coming up this hour, we'll catch up with
Stuart Kaiser of City as stocks snap a
six-day winning streak. John Libra of
Eurasia Group with Fedshare JPAL under
pressure from the White House and Angelo
Zeno of CFR looking ahead to earnings
from Microsoft and from Meta. We begin
this hour with stock steady as traders
await big tech earnings and a Fed rate
decision. Stuart Kaiser of City writing
earnings are the biggest risk for the
week and unemployment the most important
for the next three months. Stuart joins
us now for more. Stu, good morning.
>> Morning.
>> Just how relevant is this Federal
Reserve?
>> I mean, they're all relevant. Yeah,
don't get me wrong, but I think to your
point, they would like this to be as as
irrelevant as possible. I think unless
unless they signal that the inflation
data they got a couple weeks ago
actually changes their thinking and
their thought process on the path path
of rates, I think, you know, the market
this is going to try to be a nothing
done type event. There's always a risk
and I think the risk here is that they
skew a little bit more hawkish but but
all in they've got to your point a lot
of data coming up. They also have
Jackson Hole which they can use as sort
of a quasi FOMC meeting about a month
from now and I think that gives them a
lot more freedom to be flexible today.
>> It's a long runway into September.
You've got a sort of a one-mon view and
a three-month view. In the near term,
the earnings we've got meta, Microsoft
later in the longer term, the next three
months or so, the labor market and
unemployment. Just kind of frame that
for us this morning.
>> Yeah, I mean I think to us that that's
been the most probably unemployment rate
has been the most important data point
you get, you know, for for a while now.
And I think to the extent that if the
Fed is cutting rates with a 4.1%
unemployment rate and you're an equity
investor, you have to probably really
really appreciate that help. Um if you
get the unemployment rate rising up to
around 4 and a half% then in our view a
couple rate cuts is not nearly enough
and that'll put a lot of pressure on the
Fed to cut more aggressively. But if
they're also getting a little bit of a
tariff impact on inflation, it it
creates some kind of dual mandate issues
for them. So look, the US consumer has
been the white knight of the global
economy for for a long time now. And to
us that weakness in that part of the
economy is by far the the biggest risk
to the market.
>> What weakness? And I say this because
yes, we did get Jolts data, job openings
data yesterday that came in slightly
lower than the expectation, but the
quits rate still holding in there. And a
lot of the other surveys have shown
quite a bit of resilience and stability.
What weakness and cracks are you looking
at that gives you a sense that maybe we
could get up to 4 and a half%
unemployment rate?
>> I think at this at this point, you'd
actually need to see job losses. Right.
To your point, the labor market feels
like it's in a state where you don't
have a ton of layoffs. you don't have a
lot of quits, but if you do lose your
job, it's quite hard to find a new job,
etc. So, there's I think what economists
see that they they view that to John's
point, the labor market's on edge.
There's some weakness and some fragility
there. But I think until you see actual
layoffs from corporate America, um you
know, the market's going to try to look
past this stuff.
>> Yeah, there are a couple of different
stories that are kind of layered on top
of each other, which is one reason why
it's been such a difficult market to
understand this year. One of them has
been the earning story and the AI story
in particular. We get Meta and Microsoft
today after the bell at a time where
capital investment has just been through
the roof. At what point is this market
really hinged on the idea that that
continues this idea that capital
expenditures has to keep accelerating in
the AI space?
>> Yeah, I mean I think that that's
probably the single most important thing
we get later today. Obviously the
earnings guidance matters, but it's the
capex guides. You look back to Google
last week, they actually increased capex
again this quarter after a massive
increase last quarter. So look, I mean
that is that's the key to to US equity
markets now. It's the key to the
earnings outlook and frankly I think
it's the key to the US versus rest of
world you know discussion as well. If
you want to be in that AI trade you kind
of have to be in US equities. So you
know that that capex is kind of the
fulcrum for a lot of stuff uh valuation
earnings and also kind of relative
performance globally.
>> J just to build on that does it make
this equity market in America that much
more resilient compared to say Europe?
The numbers coming from Europe this
morning Adidas getting hammered this
morning not signaling much confidence at
all. Porsche, Mercedes cutting their
outlooks, China a problem. Tariffs may
be in the future a problem for them as
well. Just describe the character of the
US market versus say Europe and what
that means for the resiliency of those
individual stock markets through the
rest of this year.
>> Yeah, I mean I think if you look back
the last couple years, I would argue
that US exceptionalism has been a
combination of fiscal spending and the
fact that we have large cap tech and
growth stocks in the US that frankly
just don't exist in a lot of other
markets. If you want to invest in AI and
large cap tech, you maybe have a small
number of companies um in China at the
top end, you have probably a handful of
companies in Europe and then you have
have the US and I think people I was in
Europe a few weeks ago and I was
surprised at how underweight the AI
trade a lot of those investors felt
especially after one Q earnings when the
capex guidance got pushed so much
higher. So look, the US has large cap,
it has growth, and it has, you know,
tech and AI. And I think what that means
is there's just a gravitational force
kind of pulling dollars into the US
market that you just don't have
elsewhere.
>> Makes the question this morning. What is
the compelling case to make today for
superior returns on the continent for
the foreseeable future?
>> Okay, perfect example for this. And as
you were talking, no Nordisk, the weight
loss company I think of them given some
of the drugs that they have used to be
the second most valuable company in
Europe after yesterday's selloff is the
sixth most valuable company in the
index. It just shows you how much they
are hinged on luxury and weight loss in
the idea that is sort of not necessarily
with the AI trends
>> and the market cap is something like 10%
of one of the mega cap stocks reporting
later.
>> Exactly. This is the reason why people
are watching what happens in the US with
Microsoft and Meta and saying that that
determines US exceptionalism more than
almost anything else at a time when
you're facing off with what we're seeing
over in Europe.
>> Can I pick up on a little bit of tension
maybe in your call between the earnings
from big tech and what might happen in
the labor market over the next several
years? The companies that will be
responsible for developing the
technology that might lead to job losses
are the companies that might do the best
over the next several years. Are you
expecting some kind of divergence
between how big tech performs and labor
market developments over the next
several years? I
>> I mean it definitely could be the case.
Been a lot of articles written and you
know we see it as well on Wall Street is
you know this AI does it replaces a lot
of the the mundane tasks that that we
all do and I think what you're seeing in
that is in a very simplistic way is
continuing claims right continuing
claims are very very high. If if you
lose your job it's hard to find another
another job to replace that. And that's
probably that may not be AI today, but
that dynamic is what people are worrying
about, you know, with AI in the white
collar space in particular. So yeah,
there's there's a opportunity or risk
there that these companies continue just
to sort of acquire wealth and market cap
and earnings at a time when it is sort
of a negative impact at least a down
market on the unemployment rate. Given
how many question marks there are and
given the lack of clarity when it comes
to the forward trajectory of the economy
as well as just corporate developments,
are you surprised there's been such
little volatility that the VIX has just
fallen off a cliff
>> over the course of the last couple
months? Yeah, I over last last month or
so. Yeah, realize volatility's
collapsed. This is a little bit sort of
how you evolve out of crisis though is
you know you get this massive you know
surge of volatility for a period of time
the VIX goes high the curve inverts and
then you know people derisk and VA
becomes sort of uh you know
self-correcting to some degree and that
brings the VIX down. I think what you're
seeing now is the VIX is low but the VIX
term structure is very high. So the
market is still pricing risk kind of in
that 3 to six month window even though
the the front of the curve is is quite
low. Look if you look at two two things
I think are contributing to that. One is
like V target V target investors,
systematic investors. They've bought the
market 41 consecutive days. And the
second would be we're on pace for a call
at $1.2 trillion in buybacks. That's $5
billion a day of equity being bought. So
I think once you take out the aggressive
selling and then the re-risking, which
is what we saw kind of into April and
then out of April, what you're left with
is systematic and and you know more uh
more slow burn kind of money coming into
the market, which is suppressed
volatility. Obviously, everybody on Wall
Street would like a little more
volatility. So, um I'm not celebrating
it. I'm just trying to, you know,
explain where it might be coming from.
>> It makes sense, Stew. It's good to see
you as always. Thanks for being here.
Thank you, Stuart Kaiser of City on a
range of issues. One being we could have
some negative developments in the labor
market, but continue to have positive
developments for the stock market.
>> Yeah, and you really highlighted a key
point that people are looking at. The
economy is not the market. And what
we've seen is the biggest winners might
be doing so at the expense of certain
human mundane tasks that can get
replaced by some of this AI development.
>> If I was to start an ETF, I'd call it
payroll protection and it would just be
long Nvidia and that would be it. And I
suggest that everyone should take out
that option, that insurance package.
>> Yeah, it's called the NASDAQ, which is
the reason why people are buying US
equities. It does go to the heart of the
lack of clarity on exactly how this is
going to evolve and it's a question that
we're going to hear on earnings calls
from a lot of big companies how they are
adapting AI whether it's with
efficiencies or whether it's retraining
>> equity futures positive this morning by
a tenth of 1% looking forward to 11
trillion of tech earnings across just
four tech names over the next 24 hours.
Let's get you an update on stories
elsewhere this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Here's Yahara Arnand.
Hey yara.
>> Hi John. The US and China have wrapped
up two days of talks in Stockholm. The
Chinese trade negotiator says they
agreed to extend their 90-day tariff
truce, but Treasury Secretary Scott
Bessant said the Chinese may have jumped
the gun a little. Bessant saying
extending the pause another night
another 90 days could be an option, but
the final decision would be up to
President Trump. Meanwhile, a massive
earthquake off Russia's far east has
sparked tsunami warnings across the
Pacific. The quake was a magnitude 8.8
eight off the Russian coast, the
strongest since 2011 when an earthquake
off Japan's east coast sparked the
tsunami that led to the Fukushima
nuclear disaster. Hawaii saw 4ft waves
before some alerts were downgraded to
warnings and evacuees were allowed to
return home. And Blackstone's offices in
Midtown Manhattan will remain closed
this week and it's unclear when they
will reopen following Monday night's
shooting. Among the four killed was a
Blackstone employee. NFL Commissioner Ro
Roger Goodell says NFL employees who
were the intended target of the shooting
should work from home until at least
August 8th. That's your brief. John
>> Yahara, thank you. We'll have more on
that story later on this hour. Up next
on the program, Trump versus Pal.
>> That call him too late pal cuz he's
always too late. Am I allowed to appoint
myself at the Fed?
>> Anybody would be better than J.
>> He's a knucklehead.
>> Well, I'd love him to lower interest
rates.
Other than that, what can I tell you?
>> Up next, we'll catch up with John Lever
of Eurasia Group, live from New York
City this morning. Good morning.
[Music]
The week begins a little bit later this
morning. Check out this lineup. 8:30
Eastern time. Economic data, Treasury
refunding. Later on this afternoon,
chairman pal and a Fed decision. And
then after the close, earnings from Meta
and from Microsoft. That is a packed 12
hours. Coming right up. Equity futures
on the S&P 500 just about positive this
morning by a tenth of 1% on the Nasdaq
up by 0.2. two. Your small caps up by
0.4 under Savylvanas this morning. Trump
versus Pal.
>> Back home too late Pal cuz he's always
too late. Am I allowed to appoint myself
at the Fed?
>> Anybody would be better than J Pal. He
keeps the rate way up. I think it's
Trump derangement syndrome. We have a
at the head of the Fed.
>> I think if Jerome Powell stepped out, it
would be a great thing. He's
spending$2.5 billion dollars rebuilding
the Fed.
>> I talked about the concept of fire him.
I said, "What do you think?" Almost
every one of them said I should. He's a
knucklehead. It's a tough construction
job. It looks like it's about 3.1
billion. Went up a little bit or a lot.
Uh so the 2.7 is now 3.1.
>> Not aware of that.
>> Yeah, it just came out.
>> Well, I'd love him to lower interest
rates, but other than that, what can I
tell you?
>> Here's the latest this morning. Fed
chair J. Pal expected to keep policy
unchanged in the face of rising pressure
from President Donald Trump to cut
interest rates. Bloomberg's Tyler
Kendall joins us now for more. Tana,
good morning.
>> Hey, John. Good morning. Well, we are
expecting to hear from President Trump
later on today. But as you mentioned, if
the Fed's expected to hold rates steady,
that means that the president is likely
to be unhappy as the White House has
really expanded its list of criticism
ahead of this FOMC meeting. As you
heard, it's gone beyond the Fed's wait
mode, its stewardship of the economy,
and it's really started to focus on
Chair Powell's management of the central
bank itself. And we saw that on full
display last week when President Trump
put on a hard hat and went down to the
Federal Reserve's headquarters here in
Washington to criticize the recent cost
overruns of the renovation project
that's currently underway. And we should
say that there actually was sort of a
sigh of relief after that tour because
President Trump indicated that he didn't
think Powell's handling of the
renovation ultimately amounted to a
fireable offense amid uh speculation
that the administration could be
building a legal case here to remove
him. But President Trump did say he made
clear to Powell in private on that tour
the path of monetary policy he wants him
to take moving forward. The argument has
also expanded into debt servicing costs
for the US government. Something that
Leel Brainer, the former Fed vice chair
and NEC director under the Biden
administration told me is an attempt by
the administration. She says to cover up
the true cost of the reconciliation
package, that one big beautiful bill.
Now, John, I did ask the deputy treasury
secretary, Michael Faulkender, last year
in terms of economic outcomes that the
Treasury is tracking. What would be the
difference between cutting today and
cutting in September? And he actually
said that in his view, it's really about
the big picture and keeping up with peer
nations. Just another uh instance that
we can add to this list of criticism. Of
course, we should say that Jerome Powell
has defended the central bank's approach
and says that any decision will be made
with non-political analysis. Tyler
Kendall with the latest down in
Washington. Tyler, thank you. More from
Tyler in the next hour. Something on the
edge of dangerous. Is it fair to say
things are a little quieter since that
visit last Thursday?
>> It seems like he got it out of his
system for now. This is the question. Is
it sort of like in wait and see mode
until let's see what they do on
Wednesday. Today, given the fact that
he's like, "Oh, terrible how big the
price was." And you had Jay Powell
saying not true at all. It was like a
marital spat. And then he said, "Just
lower interest rates and it'll all be
good." So here we are and what is the
response post Wednesday?
>> I'm not suggesting he won't say anything
later. I'm just suggesting things are a
little calmer maybe in Washington.
>> Blow the steam off the top
>> possibly. John Liber of Urasia Group
joins us now for more. John, we got to
talk about this and obviously trade, but
let's just start with this. We've seen
criticism of Fed shares throughout the
decades. Is there anything different
about the criticism coming from this
White House to this Fed share?
Yeah, there's a lot different because
Trump's been spending the first six
months of his administration taking a
really heavy hand with the rest of the
executive branch and asserting
authorities that I think a lot of
people, including me, didn't think he
had. I mean, he's shutting down
agencies. He's firing federal workers.
And he seems and he's removed uh
bipartisan board members from uh the FCC
and other boards. So, this is clearly a
real threat that the president's trying
to exert more influence over the Federal
Reserve chair. We've seen presidents try
to intervene with the Fed in the past.
In the 60s, uh, you know, there was
legal opinion from DOJ that said that
they couldn't fire him. And now it looks
like Trump has the authority, or at
least thinks he has the authority to
actually fire Powell. So, this is a very
different situation than I think we've
ever seen with the Fed chair, at least
in the last 40 years.
>> The president himself has acknowledged
the fact that his term is up in May and
he might as well just wait. Why cause
the disruption between now and then?
John, how are you thinking about the
timeline, the process to replace
Chairman Pal?
>> So, there's an open seat on the board
that comes up in January, and from what
I understand, several of the nominees
who want the job are trying to angle to
get onto that open seat, which is a
version of Scott Besson's shadow fed
chair. You put somebody on the seat, uh,
an outsider that Trump likes, that
person would kind of just tend tend
their garden and and and vote for the
five months before Powell steps down. uh
and then and then they would become the
chair whenever Powell steps down. Um I
think that's one plausible path here and
possibly the most likely, but I think,
you know, I don't think Trump's going to
fire him. I think probably he'll make an
announcement in the November, December
time frame and probably no later than
January or February. That person will
then take over in May when Powell goes
away. But, you know, this is not over
yet. And I think that Trump has
temporarily stopped threatening Powell.
Today is an important day because if he
the Fed doesn't cut rates, let's assume
Trump acts out again and and we'll have
to wait and see what he says. Now, I do
think the threat of the firing has gone
down significantly after that visit at
the Fed building last week. Trump seemed
satisfied that the building wasn't uh
that opulent, that it wasn't that much
on the cost overruns and it wasn't that
crazy. And I think he also got the
message that firing Powell would be very
bad for his presidency. So I think the
threats have receded um and I think
markets will continue to look through
Trump's statements about the Fed uh
today and later this year.
>> What's more important then to you from a
policy perspective, John? What we hear
from the Fed today and the response from
the president or the refunding
announcement in a little more than two
hours time when we get a sense of
exactly how the Treasury plans to
finance itself. This is actually a key
component of this whole discussion given
that there plans to be more emphasis on
issuing on the front end which is more
directly connected to that Fed rate.
>> Yeah, I think that's right and I think
that you know this issue of where to
fund on the curve is one that the
Treasury has been putting a lot of uh
thought into. They were very critical of
the Biden administration for having
borrowed a lot more on the short end. Uh
but now they find that that's where the
demand is and that's what they can do.
So you know I think this announcement
will give some indications. This was
something that the markets paid have
been paying more and more attention to
in the last few years. And given the
enormous debts that the US is racking
up, these questions about how the US is
going to fund it, who's going to buy
that debt are top of mind. And I think
the refunding is an opportunity for
investors to get a peak as to the volume
of treasuries that are going to be
coming down the pike soon, which is
enormous. Maybe this is unrelated, John,
but do you think that the fact that
there has been some agreement between
the US and Europe and the US and Japan
gives some breathing room to take the
pressure off the Fed given that there
will be the revenues coming into the US
Treasury from some of these tariffs that
have been agreed upon?
>> That's probably right. I mean, I think
we don't know the exact number that's
coming in. Um, you know, it certainly is
a nice little plug for the US
government. Let's assume it's a 150 or
maybe $200 billion a year in additional
revenue. However, the government's
running $2 trillion plus annual deficits
and over the long term it's clearly
unsustainable because of the US
demographic problems. So it probably
helps in the short run and I think that
is going to be something that is
important to pay attention to but on the
other hand this does makes virtually no
difference in the long run picture of US
deficits.
>> Hey John, appreciate your time as
always. John Lee there if you raise your
group looking for that refunding
announcement at 8:30 Eastern time. The
Federal Reserve refunding GDP, tons of
earnings. This 24 hours ahead of us is
absolutely packed.
>> It's pivotal. It really creates the
halfway mark in 2025. It's shocking to
think that we're just halfway through
this year. Uh and we look ahead until
the second half where things get a
little bit more interesting in terms of
the ramifications of some of these
policies. We might start to see it in
earnings, but really a number of
economists and analysts say the proof's
in the pudding in the second half. in
the third quarter, in the fourth
quarter,
>> we have clarity on the policy now.
Correct. To some extent, at least we
know what the deal with Europe's going
to look like with Japan and we're going
to kick the can with the Chinese for
another 90 days possibly. So, we got the
clarity on the policy. They've got two
more CPI reports. Question I would have
for the chairman today is two CPI
reports enough to get a decent read on
how this is going to play out, not over
the next several months, but over the
next 12 months. At some point, you have
to take a leap of faith. If it's not
today, when is it?
>> Yeah. And to that point, and this is the
reason why you keep focusing on the
labor market, how telling is the labor
market that is resilient and holding in
there like so many guests who come on
our show talk about versus the Chris
Waller view of things and what other
people say as well, which is there have
been cracks and they do suggest that
there's a greater degree of weakness
than maybe some of the headline numbers
demonstrate.
>> That's the latest on what we can look
forward to over the next 24 hours.
Coming up next on this program, we'll
catch up with Cell Lefery of Protective
Counter Measures. The security experts
look for answers following the tragic
Manhattan shooting. Live from New York
City this morning, good morning to you
all. You're watching Bloomberg TV.
[Music]
earnings in America just around the
corner. 20% 15th of the S&P 500
reporting across four names. That's more
than 11 trillion in market cap. Huge
companies and their earnings reports are
coming right up. Equity futures on the
S&P positive by a tenth of 1% on the
NASDAQ up by 0.2. 3 hours away from the
cash open with your morning movers.
Here's Danny Ber. Hey Danny.
>> Hey John. Some stocks on the move that
reported after the bell yesterday. Visa
being one of them. Those shares down
almost 2% despite the fact that they
upheld their guidance for the year.
Earnings coming in solid. But analysts
had been expecting that they would
upgrade their earnings. The fact we
didn't get that means that shares fell
on the bright side. The CEO saying that
the consumer is healthy and they are
spending. But that is a different story
than what we heard at Mandelas. that's
the maker of Oreos of Ritz crackers
completely different their North America
sales miss and there the CEO said that
the consumer isn't healthy that the
consumer has anxiety also saying that
they did not expect to bounce back in
the second half of the year because
that's when tariffs will really start to
hurt so those shares down 2 1/2%
elsewhere with consumer companies
reporting there was Starbucks yes they
did miss on a few on a few figures but
the CEO Brian Nickel says that the
turnaround is ahead of schedule and that
things are going well those shares up
4.7% in reaction to that, saying that
they were also going to unleash a wave
of innovation in 2026. That includes
things like protein cold foam. That
sounds more like a science experiment
than a drink. But either way, positive
reaction to that, John.
>> Danny, hold up. What are they calling
it?
>> A protein cold foam. I like I literally
have no idea what that is. I only know
those words.
>> How's that going to work? How do you
drink foam?
>> Are you kidding? I love I love
>> You can drink foam.
>> I can taste foam on something.
>> Oh, really? I actually really enjoy
drinking foam. I have to be honest. I
hold on a second. When you froth milk
and then you just have the froth and you
put some cinnamon in it, it's really
yummy.
>> You just have the foam. That's it.
>> I mean, imagine that there's drink
underneath it. It's like Yeah. Right.
So, like it's just But it's sort of
like, you know, it's sort of like sorbet
except foam if you want to lose weight.
>> This is not important. I'm getting lost
in it.
>> But it's I think that it's something
that's really heard. Deep dive.
>> Okay. Danny, thank you. Thanks for the
distraction. Equity futures positive by
a tenth of 1%. Let's get you some top
stories on our radar this morning. A
divided Fed. The central bank widely
expected to hold rates steady today, but
Fed Governor Chris Waller and vice chair
for supervision, Michelle Bowman,
signaled they might descent.
>> So, how does a Fed chair who has
designed his whole chairmanship around
consensus message this? And then I think
it's going to be really important. How
much does he really lean into the idea
that there's economic justifications on
both sides of the argument at a time
when that's really where Wall Street's
at, but there is a pretty loud
mouthpiece at the White House screaming
down his neck? I mean, really, the
reason why this feels like a marital
spat is because it felt like they were
looking at their balance sheet and
bickering over line items.
>> This is the president, the president and
the chairman. So, I just wonder how much
he's going to cater to that relationship
in addition to the relationship of the
different Fed members.
>> Do you think it's possible that the
division within the Fed might be a
strength for the chairman today and not
a weakness? That you can say it's
difficult to provide a consensus right
now because there are two very different
views of the world. And essentially,
Governor Waller did this for him a few
months back when he put out a speech and
it was called a tale of two outlooks.
And he could present today a tale of two
outlooks. You could say on the one hand,
some officials are expecting this on the
other some are worried about this. And
we want a little bit more information,
two CPR reports, two payrolls reports to
get back around the table in September,
come out with some new forecasts.
>> A strength for Fed Chair J. Powell in
the eyes of who? I think that that is
the important question because right
now, you are absolutely correct. Right
now, Fed Chair J. how largely is
endorsed by this market and said a lot
of people think he's doing a good job.
There is this question of how much is he
catering to one person in the White
House the way that other people
speculate that some governor members are
doing so.
>> Mr. Chairman, good luck. 2:30 Eastern
time for that news conference. The
president setting to make the call on
the USChina trade truce before it
expires in two weeks time. Chinese
officials saying the latest round of
trade talks landed on an extension while
the US trade representative Jameson
Greer said they jumped the gun. So where
are we?
>> Yeah, big question mark. The expectation
in markets is that the can will get
kicked. It would be a huge surprise if
President Trump tries to disrupt that in
any kind of way. Although there still
are questions of what are being what's
being achieved in each of these
negotiations, these extensions,
especially given some of the concerns
that people have about the concessions
that are made in each of these
particular meetings.
>> Yeah. Particularly the relationship
between the EU and the US. Just where
are we on that front? How much push back
are we going to see over the next
several weeks? I think one official in
the administration yesterday said if
they don't agree it, the tariffs going
up.
>> Yeah. which is a pretty big threat given
that you're hearing already different
parties that are more extreme saying
this is the reason why we want to leave
the EU and that's what something that
you increasingly hear in the Euro region
as a number of member states say this
wasn't a good deal for us
>> push back continues on the continent
this time it's from European
corporations the tariffs are taking a
toll on many European companies Porsche
this morning cutting its profit outlook
for the third time this year Adidas
reporting weaker than expected revenue
growth and these companies starting to
think about just how much this is all
going to cost.
>> Yeah. One of the problems for
particularly the auto manufacturers in
Europe and it kind of is a microcosm of
the bigger story is that they rely on
two big markets disproportionately the
US and China. Both of those markets
present opposite threats in different
ways. One of them competitively with
just dumping vehicles and the other one
saying we're not going to have as much
demand for you in terms of the pricing.
This creates a real headwind at a time
where there already was an existential
question around how quickly they were
adapting to the EV revolution etc. It
just puts the whole economic growth
story in Europe on tent hooks and that's
one reason why we've seen some
skepticism expressed particularly
through the currency.
>> I'm pleased you said this because it's
not just China and it's not just
tariffs. It's about whether the consumer
actually wants electric vehicles from
sports car manufacturers. That's the
issue at play for that company. Well, it
shows that their margin for error was
that much smaller because they already
had been experimenting and so they're at
a weaker foot and it shows that those
with a stronger hand are able to
maneuver through the threat of tariffs
and the threat of competition from China
and those that kind of were were missing
it a little bit whether it's or Porsche
are feeling the pain that much more
greatly and I think that that's actually
the story that really is encapsulated by
the European auto manufacturers.
>> That's the latest from the continent
this morning. Let's turn to the dominant
story in this city over the last 24
hours. Four victims killed by a lone
gunman inside a Manhattan office
building, making this the worst mass
shooting in New York City in a quarter
century. The victims have been
identified, including top Blackstone
executive Wesley Lener. Joining us now,
Chali Bass. Good morning, Chanali. A
company in Morning,
>> a company in Morning. John, you have to
remember that the building of course is
still closed. you have very many
companies that were housed in that
building, but Blackstone in particular,
remember the shooter was allegedly not
looking for Blackstoneone. He was
looking for the NFL. In the hallway, uh,
in the lobby is where Le Patner was shot
as he was entering the building. I would
say that people across Wall Street knew
her very, very, very well because she
ran a core business at Blackstone. This
is a more than $325 billion real billion
dollar real estate business uh which she
was a key executive including the chief
executive of Bir which is a more than
$50 billion investment trust that
connects to retail investors. It's one
of Blackstone's biggest pushes. But
she's also this year John she joined the
board of the Met. She of course was also
on the board of the U.JA Federation. So
very close to the Wall Street Jewish
community as well and the Jewish
community across of New York. But
remember the people who were killed in
this shooting were across very many
walks of life in New York. So this
shooting looms very large. Remember the
woman who died at Ruden management was
not yet 30 years old. She was a very
young associate. So still shaken many
people still working from home through
the course of the week. Certainly in
that building and in buildings nearby
people are back to work. But remember,
the scene still looks like a crime scene
in a place in New York that has become
core Wall Street. Remember, these
buildings are no longer downtown
anymore. Most of the financial industry
is now in Midtown nearby. So certainly
this week does loom large across Wall
Street.
>> Shalie, I'm pleased you brought this up.
You know better than most. We've all
been speaking to individuals at various
financial institutions that are housed
along Park Avenue. executives over the
last few years have made a massive push
to get people back into the office and I
imagine over the last 24 hours there's a
greater degree of anxiety of employees
of those companies about going into the
office. How are the companies actually
responding to this to try and offer
people securities that they're making
the office place a safe place? I'm glad
you mentioned this because even before
this happened, I had been talking to
executives about just this matter, John,
and you did see since the United Health
executives killing just a matter of
months ago, the very top ranks have
increased security for themselves, of
course. But in addition to that,
this was a very strange shooting, wasn't
it? I the fact that he was able to get
his hands on an assault type rifle of
that sort is certainly something that is
hard to protect from. This is a building
that was already very significantly
secured. And the strange thing as well,
John, is remember this is in the August
months in New York where a lot of people
are not in town. So, you can't really
get a sense of how many people are
actually coming in versus not coming in
at this point in time. A lot of the
executives and the companies I speak to
say they're telling their employees, "If
you need a moment, take a moment. Don't
feel like you need to rush back in."
However, how long will that really last
for? And how soon will employees be pull
back in in in neighboring areas for
Blackstone itself? Remember, they also
did say they had a town hall late
yesterday morning saying that people
need to take the time for themselves and
grieve as as needed here. But to your
point on security, there has been
increased security. I have talked to
other business as well who are looking
at increasing or reviewing security as
we speak.
>> Chanali, appreciate the update. Thank
you. Look out for Shanali later on on
Bloomberg TV. Let's build on some of
this conversation with S. Lefreri. He is
the president of Protective
Countermeasures, a firm focused on
providing risk and threat management
solutions to corporations. He joins us
now. S welcome to the program. We want
to do better. How can these corporations
do better?
Well, I think you know as the the woman
just mentioned that the you know
security at the building at especially
at that particular building was
relatively strong. Uh he actually had
uniformed NYPD even though he was
working off duty but uniformed NYPD
presence in the lobby. Uh it's tough to
increase it any more than that. So the
the problem I think that really is
existing and I think that this starts to
show is that when you have these
situations develop, you know, this guy
didn't just snap. He didn't wake up one
day and decided he was going to do this.
This is something that happens over a
progression of time. And there are
particular indicators to potentials to
violence that occur that are often
overlooked. And you know, we we've
developed a program called the TAG
program, a threat assessment group that
works with corporations that actually
looks at when you get that inappropriate
correspondence that comes in. And more
times than not, people just kind of
throw it away and go, "It's just a cook.
It's a problem." You know, it it's
nothing. And what we've seen over time
is that it becomes something. It's a
slow development. and the ability to get
in front of it at that point to provide
some type of counseling or interact or
intradiction uh is critical. Uh trying
to stop it in the lobby in the moment
when he walks in with a rifle is way too
late. Given that this was the most
deadly uh shooting in Midtown in New
York in some 20 years, from what you've
seen, has there been a real increase in
threats to different corporate offices
or is this just a really high-profile
one-off that you can point to?
>> No, I think there are significant
threats that are that are coming
through. I think the you know, if it
kind of you know, we see it almost on an
everyday basis, right? 20 years ago, you
didn't see the road rage incidents that
you have today. The amount of anger, the
amount of frustration that people are
exhibiting, uh whether whether it's the
economy, whether it's uh co whatever it
is, um it's that we're starting to see
this uptick in it. And I think the other
thing is with the advent of social
media, it makes it very easy now to
reach out to people. you know, before
you almost had to work to get to a CEO
and to get something in his hands or to
get to him, you know, and today you can
you can start off very slowly and you
can and you could make these you can
make these threats. So, we're seeing an
uptick uh along the way where ultimately
it winds up in violence. And you know,
one of the other statistics I think is
sort of crucial is when the shooting
happened the other day, uh I think the
statistic was something like that was
the 245th
active shooter situation we've had in
the country since January. Uh so the the
amount of violence there is just it's
getting it's starting to just uptick.
>> There's still a lot of questions and I
know that the NYPD has gone to Las Vegas
to get more ground intel to understand
exactly what happened here. What's the
key piece of information that you're
still waiting to learn to properly gauge
what this threat was and how to better
protect against something like this
going forward?
>> Well, I think one of the things that
they'll be able to do is when they get
into the home to understand, get a look
at the computers, if they're still
there, uh any electronic devices that he
may have had to see where that
progression came from. Uh was there any
information? Was there anything that was
sent to the NFL? Uh were there other
writings? where they're things that
friends and neighbors may have seen a
change in. Uh I think the while we're
not looking for a prosecution because
the the perpetrator is dead. But while
what we'd be looking for is a good
understanding of what the motivation was
in this and again I this wasn't a thing
where he just jumps up one day and
decides to do this. especially if it was
if it's proven to be true that it is CTE
that that he occur that he had that's
going to show over a period of time. And
I think those are the indicators that
we're going to be looking for. Did he
write a manifesto which seems to be
going on? Uh he did write a suicide note
that he brought with him. So clearly he
had an indication that this is what he
was going to do that he wasn't going to
leave alive.
>> Tragic. Truly heartbreaking. S thanks
for making time for us this morning. We
appreciate it. Salaf Ferrari there of
protective counter measures with an
update on stories worldwide with your
Bloomberg brief. Let's cross back over
to Yahara. Hey yhara.
>> Hi John. The US and India are racing to
negotiate a trade deal before Friday's
deadline. President Trump says he may
settle on a 20 to 25% rate though that
isn't final. Any levy of that magnitude
would be a blow to India which had been
one of the first countries to negotiate
and had been seeking lower rates in the
19% given to Indonesia and the
Philippines. Meanwhile, HSBC shares are
falling in London trading. The bank
reported quarterly earnings that fell
short of expectations as its CEO pushes
through an increasingly costly
restructuring expenses for the second
quarter jumped 10% to 8.9 $ 8.9 billion.
And as the world's largest trade bank,
it says it will see an impact from
higher tariffs. And an Australian space
rocket making the country's first
attempt to reach orbit crashed shortly
after takeoff. The Aerys rocket exploded
after 14 seconds of flight from a
launchpad northwest of Brisbane. But
Gilmore Space says it still considers
the launch a big step for Australian
capability and is setting its sights on
another test flight. The launch came
after months of delays. That's your
bloomer brief. John
>> Yhara, thank you. More from Yhara a
little bit later on this morning. Up
next on the program, a high bar for big
tech.
>> I think we're going to see some pretty
big capex numbers. I think we're on a
path to 100 billion at Microsoft. We're
probably on a path to 80 billion at
Meta. You put it all together, I think
investors will reward it.
>> Up next, Angelo Zeno of CFR.
[Music]
live from New York City. Welcome back to
the program and Savandis this morning. A
high bar for big tech.
>> When I look at what's probably going to
happen out of the likes of Meta, Amazon,
and Microsoft this quarter, I think
we're going to see some pretty big capex
numbers. I think we're on a path to 100
billion at Microsoft. We're probably on
a path to 80 billion at Meta. At Meta, I
mean, the question is, are we going to
see 17 8% topline growth? That
definitely justifies this level of capex
spend at Azure, at Microsoft, my gut is
we're going to be north of 35%. So, you
put it all together, I think investors
will reward it. Here's the latest this
morning. Mac 7 stocks going into
earnings season close to record highs
following a 40% rally from the April
lows. Angelo Zeno of CFR writing,
"Recent strength from Microsoft and Meta
means that they have the highest bars to
beat, but we think both remain the
cleanest AI stories." Angelo joins us
now for more. Angelo, welcome to the
program. Let's talk about those two
names. What makes them the cleanest AI
stories?
>> Well, and and thanks for having me,
John. I'd say overall what makes them
the cleanest AI stories is um one,
there's a clear path for AI monetization
here over the next couple of years for
both those names. I think um the other
thing too is there's just less um you
know there's less outside stories tied
to it. You know for instance with with
an Alphabet you've got you know more
legal regulatory issues out there.
Apple's obviously got some of their
issues. So there's a number when you
look at the other Mag 7 names it just
gets a little bit messy in terms of some
of the competitive and and legal
regulatory issues that are out there.
I'd say within those those two names,
Meta and Microsoft, you could also add
Nvidia obviously among the MAG seven
names which is also a very nice clean
story as far as the AI revenue
trajectory here over the next couple of
years.
>> Angelo, can we just sit on Meta? Is the
more important number today going to be
the capex number or the earnings number,
the revenue figures?
>> So, I actually think it's more of what
the opex number is going to be for Meta.
And you know, when you think about the
capex number, they did hike it last
quarter, right? Um, so I think they
actually got ahead about a quarter ahead
of everybody else in terms of hiking the
capex number and they actually did it
back in April when um things were
visibility was very low at that point in
terms of some of the tariffs and what
have you out there. Um, but they were
looking longterm and we thought it made
it made sense here. They could
potentially increase capex again this
quarter. um especially with some of
those the the 232 sectoral uh
semiconductor investigation where we'll
get an outcome here over the next couple
of weeks and that could potentially in
you know inflate some server prices out
there but um you know at this point in
time we're looking actually for capex to
be relatively sustained maybe you know
increase slightly um the opex number I
think is what I'm a little bit more
interested in they actually tweaked it
down last quarter I think with some of
these recent hires that we've seen um
you know the creation of that super
intelligence group I actually think
there's a significant bias to the upside
in terms of opex and that could
potentially have a negative impact in
terms of the um the re the earnings
trajectory but um again you know the
most important thing is is going to be
uh the revenue here uh for the company
and based on what we saw out of Alphabet
and what we we're seeing from the
digital ad landscape right now um I I do
think there is a bias to the upside
where they could potentially be by at
least two to 300 basis points
>> that is the most Wall Street way of
saying that people are really going to
look for the $und00 million bonus es in
some of these uh in these capital
expenditures that they seem to be
making. It seems like we keep flipping
and flopping from the nuts and bolts of
balance sheet analysis to the hopes and
dreams of the promise of AI. Which is it
going to be that is better rewarded in
this particular earning cycle. It feels
like you're saying the hopes and the
dreams more than the nuts and the bolts.
>> I think it depends on the company to be
honest with you. um you know in in terms
of the infrastructure plays you think of
a company like a Microsoft and you can
and even some of these non-mag mag seven
names right the oracles of the world
those have been some of the best
performing names this year and because
the reason for that is because you're
getting you know immediate monetization
of AI from those names um and that makes
all the sense in the world in terms of
meta it is more the hopes and the dreams
because you're not getting that instant
um you know revenue recognition from AI
this earnings call is going to be all
about Zuckerberg really telling the AI
story here over the next two to three
years. It's kind of justifying some of
those recent hires that he made and and
talking about the potential for them to
really see a step up in AI monetization
in 2026 and 2027 which we think he's
going to be able to do and we think
there are a number of ways that Meta is
going to be able to monetize AI across
that app-based platform. Um, so I think
I think it all depends on the company,
Lisa, but um, as far as Meta is
concerned, it is more the hopes and
dreams.
>> Do you think that Meta is going to
change its name given the fact that the
metaverse no longer is the hopes and
dreams of this company?
>> So, I've been saying I think they should
change the name to Meta AI. So, not
necessarily fully change, you know, get
the metaverse out of its name, but, you
know, throw AI in there, but u, no, I I
don't think they they they fully changed
the name, but I I I wouldn't be
surprised if they threw AI, you know,
across that name. Angelo, credit to him.
Just how adaptable is Mark Zuckerberg?
His ability to say we're going all in in
this direction, then to accept that's
the wrong direction and pivot and go
elsewhere.
>> I think you give him all the credit in
the world. I mean, you know, one thing
with Zuckerberg and you know, a lot of
people often forget this is, you know,
he's got he's got the voting power in
that company, right? He can essentially
do whatever he wants uh within Meta,
which is something that a lot of these
other, you know, CEOs necessarily can't
do. So, um, Zuckerberg is really kind of
able to, um, you know, switch on the
dime and and kind of, you know, inflect
and change his thought process and and
and throw that, you know, across the
organization really quick. So, um, but
yeah, I mean, you have to you have to
give the guy credit. I mean, he he
realized he was wrong at, you know, back
a couple of years ago, realized he
overhired, you know, significantly cut
costs because that's, you know,
essentially what was needed to be done
um, in an inflationary type of
environment. and and now he's kind of,
you know, pivoting again towards um
going full force AI and the street does
like it because unlike the metaverse, AI
does have that kind of uh you know that
that revenue trajectory that I think
Wall Street can see here over the next
you know 2 to 3 years.
>> Angela, appreciate it as always. Angela
Zeno there of CFRA, head of earnings
from Meta and from Microsoft. This
earnings call later just a recruitment
pitch to anyone at any other tech firm.
>> All you have to say is $100 billion. I
think your recruitment pitch is pretty
solid.
>> Up next on the program, Cameron Dawson
of New Edge Wealth, Heidi Krebica of the
Council on Foreign Relations, Courtney
Breen of Bernstein, and the former St.
Louis Fed president, Jim Bulard.
[Music]
>> I think we've had a great run. I think
investors should feel good about that.
>> Industries with the strongest margins um
have been leading. values right now are
not cheap.
>> The weak dollar, if that starts
reversing, that will actually put some
pressure on US stocks.
>> No one wants to admit this, but the
direction we're going in now, it looks
like we are going to see better
participation across the economy.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning to you all as we count you
down to the opening bell. 2 hours and 30
minutes away. Your scores look like
this. Equity futures positive by a tenth
of 1% after snapping a 6-day winning
streak in yesterday's session on the
Nasdaq 100 higher by 0.2%. The NASDAQ
and big tech in focus later. Earnings
from Meta and Microsoft. Tons of
economic data at 8:30 Eastern time. And
then the awkward one later on this
afternoon, a Fed decision and chairman
Pal news conference.
>> You know who made it awkward? President
Trump by saying too late it's going to
come to the podium. Look, he has a point
with respect to the economic argument
for cutting rates at a time when people
don't see the inflationary pressures
accelerating meaningfully over the next
few years, stemming from tariffs that at
least isn't sort of the a premier uh
economic look. That said, there isn't
really a reason to cut right now given
what we're seeing in the underlying jobs
economy. And so, you're going to
experience that descent for the first
time in a massive way going back to the
1990s. There isn't a big difference
between now and going into September.
Got two more CPI reports, two more
payrolls reports on August 1, September
5th. CPI August 12th, September 11th.
Actually think the more interesting
debate will be at the September meeting.
You've got that data underneath you.
You've got to provide some forecast. And
I think at some point you've got to make
a call on this. You've got to make a
call. Governor Wallace made that call.
He's saying he doesn't think there's
going to be that much pass through and
the degree to which there will be pass
through, it's going to be transitory.
That's basically his argument on
inflation. He's made that call. Will the
rest of the committee make their own
call in September?
>> Well, and right now you're hearing more
members actually suggest that that's the
case. Right. So, it's not just Mickey
Bowman and Chris Waller, two Fed
governors, if they both decided it would
be the first time that you get that kind
of descent on the board of governors
going back to 19 uh to 1993. It's also
Mary Daly and she came out and she said,
"We can't just sit on the sidelines
forever. You have to make a call at a
certain point." Currently, there is a
66% chance of a rate cut baked in for
the September meeting. This is why I
think it is very interesting in
September. If they don't cut, that will
require a bigger explanation for the
market, let alone President Trump, than
if they do cut. And I think that that
really sets up a pretty fraught meeting.
>> City Group says you can't hurry Dove. Do
you like that?
>> That's beautiful.
>> I feel like they've used that one
before.
>> I feel like that should be a song. And I
feel like we're about to get a song.
>> No, because it is a song.
>> No, hurry a Dove. that you can't hurry,
love. Oh my goodness.
>> Oh, sorry.
>> No. Oh no. Bremo. We can't restart.
We're live. Coming up, Cameron Dawson of
New Edge Wealth with stock snapping a
six-day winning streak.
>> I'm going to leave.
>> Heard Creo Retica, the Council on
Foreign Relations on US China trade
talks and the former St. Louis Fed
President Jim Bullard counting down to a
Fed rate decision. You going to be okay?
>> No, I don't think I am. I think I'm
going to have to bow out.
>> Let's begin this hour with stock study
ahead of a Fed rate decision and Max 7
earnings due out after the closing bell.
Cameron Dawson of New Edge Wealth
writing, "We are still in an uptrend,
but this setup suggests some healthy
neartime digestion." Cameron joins us
now for more. Cameron, good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> Any comment on that and what just
happened? Should we let that go?
>> Absolutely no comment. Okay, great guys.
All right, I'll just be listening to the
Supremes over here. All right,
>> just describe the setup for us. What's
on your dashboard right now?
>> Okay, we are going into a tougher
seasonal stretch in the month of August.
We typically see volatility pick up. We
are having this this position where
we're starting with an overbought
condition. We've seen valuations get to
22 and a half times forward. Positioning
has now gone from being deeply deeply
underweight in April to now modestly
overweight. Still room to get more
overweight. You've seen strategists
chase this market higher by raising
their price targets. You've seen
sentiment rebound. All of this suggests
that maybe we could have some digestion.
Nothing to end the rally. We're still in
an uptrend. There's still buybacks that
are pushing things higher. Rei earnings
revisions are still moving higher, but
healthy digestion would be good.
>> So the question I'd ask then is how much
capacity do we have to to absorb some
negative news if it comes from earnings?
If it comes from the data through the
summer, are we going to be okay?
>> I don't think that the market would take
it lightly simply because of what is
priced in given the fact that you are
trading at such high valuations. If we
were at lower valuations and positioning
was very light and you saw people
bracing for downside, that would
certainly be something the market could
take. But look at option volume. You
have the percentage of call options
being the highest since 2021 with put
options being the lowest since 2021.
This just suggests that people are only
pricing in or expecting upside
potential, not necessarily bracing for
downside. So Mama said you can't hurry
love. We just have to wait. She said
dove don't come easy. That's pretty
good, right? I'm just telling you I'm
trying to redeem myself. It's failing
miserably. I feel like crashing and
falling. you're talking about this sort
of uh high bar for any kind of downside
surprise or in terms of just justifying
the bullishness that you're seeing
currently baked into the market. Is
there a dissonance between the hopes and
the dreams for rate cuts and the
optimism that we're seeing expressed in
equity valuations? I would say yes.
Given the fact that that financial
conditions are so easy and that equity
valuations are high and credit spreads
are tight, it's one thing for people to
say the equity market is not the
economy. But everywhere we look, we see
high valuations. Whether you're looking
at CLO spreads being near record types,
high yield uh spreads being very very
tight. All of this suggests that
financial conditions are loose and easy.
This is not a market that is begging for
more liquidity. In fact, we see signs
that liquidity is incredibly abundant.
So to think about big huge Fed rate cuts
in that environment, there is that
dissonance that you talked about. Well,
this is one reason why I think that
today's tech earnings and tomorrow's
tech earnings are going to be so
important. A lot of the high valuation
story has been justified by the idea
that we're about to embark on this
technological sea change that's going to
rejigger our expectations of valuations
and potential for growth and efficiency.
Do you reject that? Do you think that
that's not a valid argument? That's just
basically pointing to the boogeyman to
justify what people like to want to keep
going.
>> Look, I think that there is reason for
optimism to have this idea that AI could
be a big step change function difference
in the productivity of the US economy.
However, there's an interesting caveat,
which is that we may be living in a
digital world, but it is becoming
increasingly more material, meaning that
these companies are having to spend
hundreds of billions of dollars on
capex. So you are transmuting a
capital-like business that was very
softwaredriven, high margin, high return
on invested capital, now having to throw
a ton of capital at those businesses.
That suggests to us that potentially
return on invested capital goes down as
you see more capital intensity because
of the physical infrastructure that is
needed to support this digital world.
>> Do you think the benefits are elsewhere
in the equity market?
>> Eventually, yes,
>> but not yet.
>> We're not seeing signs of it yet. And I
would say that the market is pricing in
some idea that you you are going to get
that broadening of the AI benefits. Look
at 2026 earnings. The expectation is for
12 1.5% growth to get there. You're
getting you have to bake in more than
100 basis points of margin expansion.
That to me says that you're pricing in
some kind of productivity benefit on a
broad basis from this AI.
>> So just to pick up on this, do you think
we're too bowled up on 26? Never mind
25. Everybody is looking to 26 now and
completely ignoring 2025. I think what
ends up happening is that if 2012
numbers come in better than expected,
you could effectively hold 2026 constant
simply because you would not be needing
as much growth. But 2026 prices in an
acceleration in revenue, which in a
decelerating nominal GDP environment, if
that's what we get, stable real growth
and deceleration in inflation, that
becomes even more challenging. So at the
297, we don't see a lot of upside in
those earnings from there.
>> You know, we keep saying that the
economy is not the market and the market
is not the economy, but what you're
describing is something a number of
people have talked about, which is for
decades there was more investment
appreciation, asset price appreciation,
and it wasn't going into the real
economy. What you're just describing is
that more and more of it is going to go
into the real economy through investment
in the physical world. We are becoming
more material. Suddenly you have to
actually create the goods to go with the
technological advancement. Does that
mean that you could see equity
valuations stall out but gains in the
underlying economy in a way that we
haven't seen for a very long time? I
think that that is the most fascinating
point or question which is that if you
start to see more of this capital
intensity, it would suggest that some of
the left behind sectors like materials
and utilities start becoming and staying
much more relevant versus this world
where we have constantly been seeing
upside to margins because of the lack of
capital intensity because this was a
softwaredriven kind of bull run really
since the great financial crisis. So if
that capital intensity picks up, we're
seeing more investment within
manufacturing. If we start seeing a
pickup within PMIs, all of this suggests
that maybe we should look at some of
those lower value sectors ver because
they have been left in the dust over the
course of the last 15 years. Can all of
that happen with rates where they are? I
mean, this goes back to the Fed and
capital investment given the fact that
we're still seeing that even with rates
that are considered, at least by the
president, to be too high. do you need
to see them come down to really boost
that cycle?
>> So, it's really interesting that we're
seeing this deceleration in real GDP
from 2023 and 2024 into 2025. But I
think it's really hard to make the
argument that the reason we are seeing a
deceleration in growth is because of the
Fed. The real Fed funds rate is lower
today than it was this time last year.
We've gotten 100 basis points of cut and
and core PC has stayed about the same.
So to argue that the Fed is so tight
that this is the reason why we're seeing
lower growth, I don't think that's the
case. It's coming from other areas.
>> Cameron Dawson, New Edge Wealth.
Appreciate your time as always. Chair
Waller cuts 100 basis points next year,
doesn't he?
>> That's the expectation markets. Well, I
mean, this is sort of the theory that
the less they cut this year, the more
they're going to cut next year because
it will ensure that whoever does get
selected will be Uber Dove. They can
find their love. It's really easy to
find their dove.
>> You keep going, don't you? That's great.
Okay, let's give you an update on
stories elsewhere. Elsewhere, away from
here for a moment with your Bloomberg
brief. Here you
>> hi John. We start with Starbucks shares
are rising 4.6% in the pre-market even
after the company posted a bigger than
expected drop in sales and profit in the
latest quarter. But investors are
seemingly encouraged by CEO Brian
Nichols confidence in his turnaround
strategy with Nichols saying efforts to
speed up service and improve staffing
are ahead of schedule.
Meanwhile, UBS posted higher than
expected profit in the second quarter.
The Zurich based bank said earnings were
aided by results at the investment bank
and in particular a 20% boost in
equities trading revenue. UBS signaled
that the prospect of cooling trade
tensions should continue to support
their results. And 4ft waves were
recorded in Hawaii and initial signs of
a tsunami were detected in California
and Indonesia after an 8.8 magnitude
earthquake hit Russia. The quake was the
strongest since 2011 when an earthquake
off Japan's east coast sparked the
tsunami that led to the Fukushima
nuclear disaster. Dr. Bloomberg brief
John
>> Yhara. Thank you. More from Yihara later
on in the hour. Up next on the program,
the US and China preparing to kick the
can.
>> The Chinese deputy minister did did say
that we had agreed on a pause. Uh we
have not nothing is agreed until we
speak with President Trump. A
conversation up next with Heidi Krebar
Retica at the Council on Foreign
Relations. That's after the commercial
break. A commercial break that Lisa will
spend researching song lyrics.
>> No, I promise it's over. You can come
back. It's okay. I promise we're not
going to mention anything again.
Equities
[Music]
are doing okay. Stocks are higher by a
tenth of 1% on the S&P. On the NASDAQ
100, higher by 0.2. Earnings later on
this afternoon. Data at 8:30 Eastern
time. Chairman Pal at a Fed decision
later on this afternoon as well. 2 p.m.
for the decision, 2:30 for the news
conference. Under surveillance this
morning, the US and China preparing to
kick the cat.
>> We don't want to decouple. We just need
to derisk with certain uh strategic
industries, whether uh it's the rare
whether it's the rarer semiconductors,
medicines, the Chinese deputy minister
uh did did say that we had agreed on a
pause. Uh we have not nothing is agreed
until we speak with President Trump.
>> So here's the latest this morning. The
Treasury Secretary Scott Besson
expecting talks between the US and China
to continue suggesting that President
Trump will make the final call on any
extension beyond the August deadline.
Our team coverage starts right now with
Bloomberg's Tal Kendall in Washington.
Ollie Crook in Stockholm. So Ollie,
let's talk about it. Have we agreed to a
pause, a truce, an extension? What have
we agreed to?
>> Yeah, Jonathan, it depends who you ask.
We had sort of two sparring uh press
conferences here in Stockholm after
those two days of talks between the US
delegation led by Treasury Secretary
Scott Besson and on the Chinese side led
by the vice premere. The Chinese spoke
first. They seemed to indicate that
basically a truce had been struck that
there would be an extension to that
90-day um truce in the trade war between
the United States and China. Then we
heard from Scott Bess and he said not so
fast. We have not yet agreed to this. We
need to first break go back to
Washington DC brief the president today
and he will make the final determination
ahead of that August 12th deadline. I
think that the market took all of that
in stride because both sides went to
great lengths to say that the talks were
very very positive. They were very very
constructive. Despite the fact that they
were apparently constructive and
positive, there was not a lot of sort of
cal palpable outcome in terms of some of
the concrete issues. How to write the
trade surplus, how to deal with one of
the issues that the US administration is
taking on further and further, which is
the continued buying of Russian crude
oil. So, I think John going forward, how
we think about the trade negotiations
with China is that these are discussions
that will be sort of measured in 90-day
increments. I suspect that the market is
currently pricing that the Trump will
okay it but we're still some far some
distance before these two leaders
Xiinping and Donald Trump can uh deliver
anything concrete which is why I suspect
a summit is probably not quite on the
cards anytime soon.
>> Tyler, maybe you can address this
question just what it's taking so long.
We all assumed we'd get a 90-day
extension. Why haven't we seen it yet?
>> Well, John, uh the Treasury Secretary
Scott Besson said that he would be
meeting with President Trump in the Oval
Office today. There is a event on the
public schedule at 1:30 p.m. Eastern
right before that Fed decision. So
perhaps President Trump is going to
speak then and make this more of a
formal announcement because it did seem
like these US officials really wanted to
make clear that it is ultimately
President Trump who is negotiating here
and would be the final say on any sort
of decision. though we did get some of
those positive indicators from the
Treasury Secretary that it does seem
like they are on track that this really
did amount to sort of a check-in to make
sure that both sides were living up to
the agreements that have been reached in
Geneva and also London particularly when
it comes to those export controls. In
fact, you heard the USR Jameson Greer in
the room that Oliver was in say that the
US never wants to talk about magnets
ever again. They just want the
assurances that those export licenses
are going to keep flowing. And the
Treasury Secretary himself defended the
US's part in these negotiations when it
comes to loosening some of those export
controls around Nvidia's H20 chips, for
example, saying that he doesn't think it
poses national security concerns. It
seems that at the moment they were
really just setting the stage to tee up
President Trump to announce potentially
this extension later on today because of
course they're against this background,
John, of the August 1st deadline. And in
all of those negotiations, officials
have made clear that the final say rests
with the president. Tyler Kendall with
the latest alongside Ollie Kirk. Ollie,
Tyler, Tyler, both of you, thank you.
Joining us now to extend the
conversation, Heidi Kbo, Retica of the
Council on Foreign Relations. Heidi,
welcome to the program. I just want to
pick up on two lines that came from the
Treasury Secretary, Scott Besson. We
don't want to decouple, we just need to
derisk. Is that the more diplomatic way
of saying we want to decouple, but we're
not in a position to until we derisk?
>> I I think you you hit the nail on the
head. I mean de decoupling is actually
uh I I'm I'm not so sure that that's the
the the best final objective anyway. I
mean the de-risking is really because we
have vulnerabilities where we have put
our you know all our eggs in one basket
particularly when it comes to rare
earths uh rare earth magnets and the
related technology and some critical
minerals um some other some other
products as well but you know China
really dominates that space and we're
trying to de-risk in the US but it's uh
and and our allies as well but it's very
very very difficult China has the
chokeold on those particular um
commodities and uh and I think they're
going to continue to use them whether or
not uh USR Greer um ever wants to talk
about them ever again or not. How much
Heidi has the US gotten more leverage
when it comes to getting some sort of
coalition of willing coalition of trade
partners to work on tamping down on the
threats that some people perceive as
coming from China right now? Do you
think that they are in a stronger
position if there is yet another 90-day
delay?
So, first I think as to the 90-day
delay, if it if it is what happens, I
think that is the very best option right
now. And the coalition of the willing
is, you know, to to look at both the
offense and defense. Uh the offense
meaning you want to be able to uh to
make the investments uh in, you know, in
all of the areas collectively that
protect economic security from
weaponization from China. the um you
know the the you also want to make sure
that if you're going to to rattle the
the saber of Russian secondary tariffs
or secondary sanctions, however you want
to categorize them, you know, that you
have to be prepared if you impose those
on China that they're probably going to,
you know, re reinstate some of those
export um control restrictions because
that is literally their choke point
right now. How much do you get a sense
that that has been the crux of a lot of
the discussions particularly with the
European Union but also Japan and
certainly in Southeast Asia which has
been a conduit for a lot of Chinese
goods into the United States uh through
those nations. How much has that been
one of the main discussion points and
part of the negotiations versus just
sort of an ancillary part?
>> Oh, I think critical minerals and rare
earths have been key. uh the you know
all the other issues that that Secretary
Bessant mentioned on overcapacity that
affects everybody um you know you have
both developed and developing countries
that are feeling the the brunt of the um
the auto you know the the the you know
excuse me the use of tsunami on a day
like today but the tsum tsunami of uh of
of Chinese auto exports flooding
flooding markets um everywhere from the
EU to uh to Brazil but I I think you
know the the one caveat is that because
we have proven ourselves unfortunately
to not be the most trustworthy trading
partner um and and uh one of Trump's big
uh objectives is really to uh to upend
both the trading and the and the
security systems the architecture. I
think there's not a lot of trust out
there. And one thing that you really
need when you're dealing with a
coalition um and building a coalition is
you need trusted partners. So, we need
to make sure that we don't lose that
trust along the way in order to um be
able to implement collectively some of
the things that we want to do on um on
economic coercion.
>> It makes me think of of Canada
supposedly a North American friend of
the United States of America left out in
the cold and I've been surprised, I know
you are too, that the two key issues
really that are left on the table put
China to one side. It's Mexico and it's
Canada and we're not hearing enough, I
don't think, about what's about to
happen. What do you think is about to
happen?
>> So, you know, the the you know,
President Trump has been very dismissive
of any deal being reached with Canada
and we traded more than 900 billion in
goods and services last year with
Canada. They are the country to our
north. Um they're it's not a small
player. They're our closest partner in
addressing many things including our our
critical mineral um challenge. we've uh
you know a lot of the investments that
have been really for shared economic
security have been together with Canada
because we are so complimentary in terms
of what we can both extract and refine
and produce together for um on the
critical minerals front. So I think you
know I I'm I'm very worried about the
fact that uh that Canada has not been
more front and center in particular.
Mexico has I it comes with a different
set of of issues. They're connected but
you know can I think Canada in
particular is is one that I am truly
worried about.
>> Heidi, do you think that's because they
just haven't focused on it or do you
think that's just a natural consequence
of the fact that we have USMCA and we
can renegotiate it next year? Which one
do you think it is?
>> So I I mean it's a good question. The
you we do have the ability and I and
obviously are going to renegotiate
USMCA, but at the same time, you know,
the the feeling that that President
Trump really likes to have the the like
all the cards to play and feels like
Canada has very few cards to play
because they haven't um diversified.
They're they're so tied to the US
economy and they're really trying to
figure out how quickly they can
diversify their energy exports, their
critical mineral exports. They have
very, you know, a very comprehensive
political backing for drisking from the
United States right now. I think that's
unhealthy. Um, but I do also think that
uh that the that the president is going
to use whatever leverage he has to
strike the best deal he can and uh but I
do I do I do worry that uh he he is
probably more likely to be conducive to
working with Mexico uh than he will be
with Canada and um and I I just uh I'm
I'm worried about that.
>> Interesting. Heidi, thank you.
Appreciate your time as always. Heard
Karen there of the council on foreign
relations. I have some sympathy with
trade negotiators right now. There's
only so much they can negotiate until
they renegotiate USMCA. So I guess with
that in mind, it makes more sense to
focus on other nations on China, on
Europe, on Japan.
>> It feels personal with Canada. Let's be
honest. I mean, it feels personal coming
from President Trump keeping uh when he
keeps on talking about the 51st date.
And it feels personal when you look at
some of the numbers coming from Canada.
Actually, uh, the Bank of Canada said,
uh, that they did a survey and it showed
that for the first time ever, 55% of
Canadians say they are avoiding or
spending less on vacations in the US.
So, there you go.
>> They've taken it personally. Without a
doubt, it's in the data. To your point,
up next on the program, we'll catch up
with Courtney Breen of Bernstein as big
farmer braces for big tariffs. Plus,
Danny Burger with your morning movers.
Hershey trimming guidance on tariff
concerns.
[Music]
just missed out yesterday on a seventh
consecutive day of gains on the S&P 500
following six all-time highs. Still well
on course for a third straight month of
gains on the S&P 500. This morning up by
a tenth of 1% on the S&P on the NASDAQ
100 up by 0.26. Switch up the board and
get to the bond market. 2-year, 10-year,
30-year bond yields this morning just
about unchanged since the Fed last met
also just about unchanged. The 10-year
and the 30-year yesterday, though, with
a decent rally this morning, 43223
yesterday. Job openings a little bit
lower than expected. Decent auction and
a big event about 60 minutes from now.
>> Yeah, there was sort of a curious move
in the 30-year bond. You saw the yield
uh coming in more than 10 basis points,
the biggest one-day move going back to
early June. Is it really because jolts
and the headline number especially with
a solid quit? Some people are pointing
to that refunding announcement which is
what you're referring to in about an
hour time and this idea that maybe we'll
get a sense that the Treasury Department
is going to issue a disproportionate
amount of bonds on the front end or debt
on the front end and maybe even reduce
coupon sizes in the long end and that I
think is what people are watching out
for.
>> Mike McKe is going to break down that
story for us in about 60 minutes from
now. The 10ear at 432, the 30-year at
about 487. Let's get you an update on
the stories and get you some morning
movers with Danny Burger. Hey Danny.
>> Hey John. I got some earnings for you.
Humanana reporting this morning upping
its guidance. Something that has been
very rare among health insurers. In
fact, most of them have been cutting
their guidance because of higher medical
costs. Humanana on the other hand said
that costs were in line with what they
expected. They also saw a big boost to
both their pharmacy and their Medicare
Advantage program. So those shares up 7
and a half%. To the downside this
morning though is Hershey's. the
chocolate maker gaining some back. It
was originally down quite a bit, up now
just about 210 of 1%. The issue for them
is tariffs. Initially in May, they gave
an update saying that the tariff cost
for them would be $20 million. They now
say will be as much as $180 million. So
they've had to revisit the cost there.
At the same time, cocoa prices have
doubled. They have also increased how
much they are charging for that because
of the shortages. Perhaps the fact
they're able to pass that along is why
you're seeing some of the losses
trimmed. Finally, VF Corp this morning.
This is the maker of North Face of Vans.
A turnaround taking hold for the
company. They've been struggling with a
lot of their business, but the earning
comes in better than expected. So, that
gives investors the confidence. Shares
are up 17% this morning, John.
>> It's a nice rally, that's for sure.
Danny, thank you. More from Danny in the
next hour. On a radar this morning, our
top story, Blackstone's Midtown
Manhattan offices will remain closed
this week following Monday's shooting.
The NFL commissioner, Roger Goodout,
saying the league's offices, which are
in the same building, will also be
closed through August 8th. Elsewhere,
President Donald Trump ramping up
pressure on Vladimir Putin, giving
Russia until August 8th to reach a truce
with Ukraine or face economic penalties.
The Kremlin responded, saying the
country has quote, and check this out
for a quote, "acqu acquired immunity to
sanctions."
>> And arguably, uh, they've demonstrated
that that has not been a deterrent when
it comes to their incursion in Ukraine.
Yesterday, we did see oil prices pop on
the back of this, the idea that maybe
this was something that was going to
lead to sanctions and a real tightening
of the screws in terms of oil exports
from Russia. I just wonder about the
timing of this. What triggered President
Trump's desire to crack down a little
bit more, at least in theory, in terms
of the time frame. Was it the
negotiations with the Europeans about
how the tariff structure would work? And
how much muscle is there behind this?
And I think that's the other thing.
There have been a lot of threats and we
haven't always seen them come to
fruition. The two issues now fit quite
neatly. Basically, the Europeans have
agreed to buy $250 billion of energy
every single year from the United States
for the next 3 years. That number was
running at something like 80 billion. If
they're going to increase that number,
it needs to drop elsewhere. And they
need to completely cut off that energy
relationship with the Russians, which
still exists to this day, which many
people find absolutely ridiculous,
>> which underscores how the trade issues
turn into national security issues, turn
into geopolitics very quickly. And we
see that on a mass scale. I will say it
is notable that when President Trump was
asked about oil prices and whether it
concerns him that oil prices could go
up, should he tighten the screws on
Russia, he said, "We can always pump
more. We're good. We can always have
that production tap turned on." So, it
seemed like he was diminishing that as a
potential threat.
>> Arguably moving the crude market in the
last 24 hours. Here's an update on
trade. The president saying that India
might be hit with a tariff rate of 20 to
25%. The two nations are working on a
deal ahead of Trump's self-imposed
deadline this coming Friday.
>> This would be a huge disappointment.
They were hoping to get something below
that 20% level. And there's a real
question around what this relationship
looks like where some of the grievances
continue. It goes to a point though that
you mentioned earlier, John, is the
business model of creating cheap goods
outside of the US and then shipping them
in for fast fashion to the US. Is that
business model dying? And I think that
really the idea that the likes of Apple,
which was going to move their production
from China to India, this question of
where do you go that's safe from some of
these potential tariffs, the fact that
you can't find a place is really raising
questions about that exact issue.
>> Nailed it and pretty much read my mind.
I don't think you can underestimate how
much that move by Apple irked this White
House. At one point in time, if you go
back a couple of months ago, India is
almost at the front of the line to get a
trade agreement with the United States.
That move happened back and the
president was vocal about it, very
public that he was unhappy with Apple
and Tim Cook about moving production out
of China into India. And remember the
conversations we were having and Dan Ice
would joke about producing them in New
Jersey. I don't think you can understate
the importance of that move and how much
it derailed talks with India. I wonder
how much you're conditioned by
experience. And this administration
remembers back in the first uh Trump 1.0
when they came up with tariffs on China
and then all of a sudden Thailand and
Vietnam and then transnational shipping
became a really important conduit of
goods into the US. Was that sort of a
telltale warning of what would happen if
they didn't make that a bigger priority
in this particular trade dispute?
>> That conference call with Apple later on
this week. H that's that's mustwatch. It
really is must listen. much let's listen
to the uh sort of disgraced uh diplomat
not disgraced diplomat but the fallen
diplomat at least when it comes to uh
the eyes of President Trump
>> more diplomatic terminology there
>> trying you know it's like
>> yeah not doing so well this morning
loving the dove
>> yeah let's turn to trade keep it on
trade and turn to pharmaceuticals the US
commerce secretary Howard Lutnik
promising quote massive tariffs on non-
US-made pharmaceuticals Breen of
Bernstein writing we do believe that the
pharmaceutical companies have already
begun aggressively mitigating the tariff
risk. We would anticipate that a 15% EU
tariff will likely cause a headwind.
Courtney joins us now for more.
Courtney, welcome. Let's talk about
those so-called mitigation strategies.
What kind of mitigation strategies have
been implemented by the companies that
you cover
>> with you this morning? I think one of
the things that we've seen the
pharmaceutical companies aggressively
engaging in is actually just bringing
forward stock into the US at a much
faster and much earlier rate. So if we
look at the data of pharmaceutical
imports into the US in March and April
after we saw some language around
potential pharmaceutical tariffs we saw
an increase by 250 and 300% in the rate
of pharmaceuticals being brought into
the country. um this has been
specifically described by many of the
pharmaceutical companies and we have
some clear anecdotes as to how long that
that pharmaceutical stock could last as
well on the scale of years.
>> So Courtney once you've done that I
guess my question now and a question of
the White House would be is 15%
sufficiently high enough to redirect
production to get these companies to
think about moving their manufacturing
base?
It's a it's a great question because
these manufacturing networks are highly
complex and they get built over decades.
Many of the companies that I cover are
150 or so years old and these
manufacturing networks kind of resemble
the fact of the age and the legacy of
those companies. Um, and certainly over
the last few decades, there's been a
real incentive to have a lot of that
manufacturing anchored in Europe,
anchored in some of these lower tax
regions where you can also pair that
manufacturing with intellectual property
and other value added capabilities that
mean you're able to minimize your profit
exposure and therefore your tax exposure
in the US. So to be able to make
changes, it is incredibly hard because
you'd be talking about perhaping a large
site that has real capital investment in
it off in one location and then trying
to turn it on in another location. And
to set up a new manufacturing site in a
place like the US, we would be talking
of a scale of about five years to go
from a green field kind of uh no no site
in place to something that's able to
produce commercial product. So there's
time, there's money, and there's kind of
untangling of the web of the
manufacturing network that's sitting
there already to be done. What we're
more likely to see are some of the stop
gap reactions. We saw the inventory pull
forward already. We've begun to see some
partnerships with CDMOs or contract
manufacturers here in the US take shape
so that farmer companies can import
goods at a lesser finished state and
finish them in the US thereby minimizing
their tariff exposure. And then we're
also seeing kind of more work going on
in sites that these manufacturing
companies already have in the US.
expanding sites, expanding the number of
lines, enhancing the operational
efficiency. And then the final step is
look, if you're really looking to expand
your volume and you need to make a new
manufacturing capex investment decision.
Of course, with this pressure, it makes
more sense to now consider the US, but I
don't think we're going to see wholesale
kind of turning off manufacturing sites
in one location to turn them on here in
the US. Courtney, my understanding is
that the tariffs and some of the uh
potential investigation is non-
generics. It's the new drugs. Generics
are not exposed to that. I just wonder
what the consequence of this is. If
there is some sort of groundbreaking
breaking medication, is there real price
sensitivity? Is the real push back
coming from insurance companies that are
going to have to pay the higher prices?
>> Yeah, you're absolutely right. There is
a distinction between kind of branded
and generic on the basis of what we've
heard out of the EU kind of since the
weekend and since the deal where this
15% EU tariff will primarily apply to
branded products with most generics
being excluded. If you think about the
patient the end user what we know is in
the US 90% of prescriptions that are
filled in the US are actually for
generic products. So kind of most of the
of the kind of interactions that a
patient will have will not have this 15%
tariff or any sort of pricing impact uh
kind of wrapped within it. On the
branded side of the equation here, we do
know margins are higher and what we do
know is that the industry has more
constraints than if you would compare it
to an average consumer industry who can
choose to raise prices as needed. in the
government channel. So your Medicare and
Medicaid, there are restrictions on
price increases. Medicaid requires the
lowest price available in the market.
Medicare limits price increases to
inflation and some other parameters that
prevent companies from kind of passing
this price or this tariff cost on.
Similarly, in the commercial setting,
often these contracts are set over a
number of years or with highly
competitive terms across a number of
companies. And so, your ability to just
raise your price and kind of compensate
yourself for the additional tariffs that
you're paying is unlikely to be kind of
fully passed through um and certainly
not fully passed through on a timely
manner. So we do anticipate some
pressures in some of these companies who
haven't been able to fully aggressively
mitigate the near-term risk of these
tariffs.
>> Courtney, we still have farmer tariffs
still to come. The EU Commission
President Ursa Von was very very careful
to point out and very purposeful to
point out this was all inclusive. There
is a conversation here as I'm sure
you're aware about whether these tariffs
actually survive legal proceedings. And
for that matter, they believe the White
House might actually avoid making the
decision on sectoral tariffs until they
have clarity on legal issues around
things like Kaipa. When you speak to
management teams, and I won't ask you a
legal question, I just want to
understand from your perspective. When
you speak to management teams at the
moment, do they convey confidence to you
that 15% is it, it's the clarity they
need and they can move on, or are they
still confused and uncertain about what
the future might hold?
It's a great question because I think
not only on this topic but many others
we've seen kind of volatility on on kind
of what actually gets implemented
relative to what what gets announced and
over what time horizon. And certainly
when you're making large capital
investment decisions like you might be
if you're initiating a new plant here in
the US or even expanding one that
already exists, you need quite a lot of
certainty. And so while almost all of
the large cap farmer companies have
announced capital commitments here in
the US, many have not yet begun actually
that initiating that spend or breaking
ground or those expansions yet. And that
is because first they were waiting for
what was going to be in the most recent
bill in terms of the extension of the
tax cuts and jobs act. And so what would
be the re the rebates or the additional
benefits they may gain from the tax
incentives of investing in America. So
that was one side and we've got more
clarity there. And then the second side
is well how long does this tariff
persist for at what rate wi through
which comp countries and how does that
compare to the fundamental growth
drivers in my business and how those
fundamental growth drivers are exposed
to manufacturing in those locations. So
yesterday we began kind of earnings of
my covered companies and Merc was one of
those companies that that presented
yesterday and we did hear from them that
they are waiting for more clarity from
both the administration and kind of
anything that gets kind of really
ratified and implemented for them to be
able to fully validate particularly
beyond 2025 what the impact might be to
their business.
>> Courtney, thanks for making time for us
this morning. Appreciate it. Courtney
Breen there of Bernstein on the latest
with pharmaceuticals and the tariffs
they face now and in the future. This
from the president just moments ago. The
August 1 trade deadline won't be
extended
>> which is the reason why people are
expecting letters as you were mentioning
earlier to the nations that do not
necessarily get trade deals. Again, what
are these trade deals though since they
are pretty uh not necessarily teased out
in full sort of trade agreements and
that seems to be where we're at.
>> Let's get you an update on stories
elsewhere. Our top stories worldwide
with the Bloomberie. Here's Yahihara.
Hey, Yahara.
>> Hi, John. Adidas reported weaker than
expected revenue growth, sending shares
plunging to their biggest intraday drop
since April. The company only reaffirmed
its annual forecast despite a bump in
profit during the second quarter. The
CEO cited uncertainty around the impact
of US tariffs, echoing the concerns of
its rival, Puma. Meanwhile, Apple has
lost its fourth AI researcher in a month
to Meta. A key engineer is joining
Meta's super intelligence team and Apple
is now weighing a pivot toward using
more third-party party model models like
those of OpenAI and Anthropic. But
sources say that's hurting morale within
its AIT.
And the Aston Martin Formula 1 team will
be valued at around $3.2 billion in its
latest stake sale. CEO Adrien Hallmark
said that the team's listed car maker
has agreed to sell its minority stake in
the team for nearly $150 million. He
declined to name the buyer, saying the
deal had yet to be completed. That's
your Bloomberg brief. John
>> Yhara, thank you. Thank you very much.
Up next, making the case to cut rates.
>> I don't think I could be any more clear,
I hope, as to what my position is and
why I think we need to do this. It's
just how I read the data. Some people
don't want to cut, some do want to cut.
But coming out and making the case
either side, that's good, healthy
debate. Up next on the program, we'll
catch up with the former St. Louis Fed
President Jim Bulard.
[Music]
A statement from the president of the
United States just moments ago from
President Donald Trump saying the
following. The August 1st deadline is
the August 1st deadline. It stands
strong and will not be extended. It's a
big day for America. That's a big day
that's two days away. For today, we're
looking ahead to a Federal Reserve
decision later on this afternoon. Under
surveillance this morning, making the
case to cut rates.
I don't think I could be any more clear,
I hope, as to what my position is and
why I think we need to do this. It's
just how I read the data and how I think
about going forward how you respond.
Some people don't want to cut, some do
want to cut. But coming out and making
the case either side, that's good,
healthy debate. Otherwise, if we're
always going to do the same, the joke is
why don't you just have one person set
policy and send the other 18 FOMC
members home?
>> Here's the latest this morning. At least
one Fed official preparing to push back
against keeping policy unchanged today.
Some Fed watchers looking for two
governors to descend for the first time
since 1993. The former St. Louis Fed
President Jim Bullard telling us
previously, "I think that the Fed could
resume its normalization process.
September would be a natural focal point
for that." Jim joined us now for more.
Jim, welcome back, sir. Just how
compelling is the case for lower
interest rates today?
Uh I think the policy rates a little bit
high for the current environment and so
I do think that uh the committee could
set up a September rate cut uh at this
meeting. Uh I think the risk for the
chair is probably that uh that gets
priced in uh even more than it already
is and and he can't preserve enough
optionality uh going into September. But
uh I'm sure he'll do a good job on that
part. Um, so I I think the committee's
in pretty good shape here.
>> Do you think that it's good to see
descent that that's actually healthy and
important right now?
>> I've always I've always felt that
descents show in in some circumstances
uh they just show that there's a lively
debate and that uh various points of
view are being heard and that can be
helpful to the chair. I think uh
sometimes you get the we get uh the Fed
gets criticized from all sides and
sometimes when it's always unanimous you
get criticized for that as well. Too
much group think. So I think uh dissense
can be valuable.
>> A lot of people are watching today's uh
meeting and press conference for any
clues of what type of pressure President
Trump seems to be exerting at least
psychologically on the Fed. I wonder how
much of a cloud you think that is. As a
former Fed member, I know you're
probably going to say it doesn't factor
into their mentality, etc., etc. At the
same time, the rest of the market is
perceiving it that way and is taking
everything that happens on the FOMC as,
oh, this person is running to be the
next Fed chair. Oh, this person is just
trying to show their defiance to the
president's uh discussion.
>> Yeah, I don't know. I I don't think the
committee uh pays too much attention.
There's a lot of data, a lot of
analysis. That's the way the meeting
works. uh it's a big formal meeting uh
and you know I think every member uh
takes their role extremely seriously and
uh if they feel like uh the data is
pointing them in one direction or
another they make the call and that's
that. So I I don't really think the
theater uh affects that part of the
discussion.
>> So Jim let's talk about the data and
where we are by the time we get to
September 17th. two more CPI reports,
two more payrolls reports, and there's
an assumption right now from some that
they've got to wait. And they've got to
wait because they need to see the tariff
pass through to consumers. How much will
we see? And once they've seen it, to
what degree will it hang around? To what
degree will it actually be transitory or
will it be sticky? Jim, is 2CPI reports
enough to draw any conclusions on that?
uh they're going to want to see that
data uh uh going into September and
that'll be the uh that'll carry the day
here today, I think. Uh and they'll,
you know, uh who knows? Uh you can
always get surprised uh by the data.
You've also got jobs reports uh in
there. So, uh they'll want to see that
uh before they make a decision. That'll
that'll be the basic idea. But I think
the the notion is that they've already
put the u reccalibration policy on pause
for the first 6 months of 2025 waiting
to see what the tariff policy would be
and whether it would feed through to
inflation. They didn't really get
anything out of that. And that's why uh
the policy rate sitting a little bit
high compared to uh inflation readings
and unemployment readings right now. And
James, do you think that, Jim, do you
think that it's fair to think that next
year you're going to see some pretty
significant rate cuts, not just because
of the new Fed chair, but because you
think it could be appropriate based on
potentially ongoing disinflation?
>> I think it is going to be appropriate
and I think, uh, if they make two rate
cuts this year, uh, September and
December, and then they follow that up
in the first half of 2026, they would
start to get to the neutral rate. what
the committee thinks the neutral rate
is, maybe 3% or three and a quarter or
somewhere in there. Uh, and that would
be the exact rate that you should be at
if inflation continues to decline toward
2% and unemployment continues to be in
the low 4% range.
>> Hey Jim, appreciate your input as
always. The former St. Louis Fed
President Jim Bull out there wanking on
the decision later on this afternoon.
Markets comfortable with this. You look
at the forecast from the Federal Reserve
for inflation for the dots where rates
are going to be. Ultimately, the Fed is
communicating inflation goes up, it
comes back down, and we'll be cutting
interest rates. The market's okay with
this because they don't see hikes. They
see a bias to reduce interest rates.
Now, will the market be okay when they
start to sense a bias to wait to wait
and to wait a little bit longer? And
that's the debate, not for today, but
for September. I really want to know
whether two CPI reports is enough to
draw any conclusions about the
trajectory for inflation beyond
September and into next year.
>> I just a cheat sheet. You're probably
not going to get the answer to that
today because the goal will be to watch
paint dry and so let's see if they can
accomplish that goal.
>> He's got every reason in the world to
make this boring.
>> Yes. Well, he usually does, but let's
see if he could actually
>> can he execute exactly in that news
conference. Up next, we'll catch up with
Joseph Amato of Newberger Berman,
Schwert Kajura of Wolf Research, Blake
Gwyn of RBC, and Claudia S of New
Century Advisers from New York. The
second downber surveillance or the third
we're losing counting count up next.
There is a little bit of a handing off
of the baton here from trade and taxes
to the Fed. The Fed shouldn't be cutting
rates. They're not in a position to cut
rates.
>> I expect Fed's playbook isn't going to
change a whole lot.
>> Risk assets don't really care as long as
the idea of rate cuts keeps, you know,
keeps being alive. That is totally fine.
>> The question really is, of course,
around the September meeting.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> The third hour of Bloomberg Surveillance
starts right now live from New York City
this morning. Good morning. Good morning
to you all. The opening bound 90 minutes
away. Your scores look like this. Equity
futures on the S&P 500 positive by tenth
of 1% on the NASDAQ up by 0.2.
Coming up over the next 24 hours,
absolutely packed with data with
earnings and sandwiched in between a
Federal Reserve decision with Chairman
Pal.
>> Yeah. And in about a half an hour time,
we get a Treasury refunding announcement
that might have more import for the bond
market than even what we get from the
Federal Reserve because it will give a
sense of just how much the US
government's going to lean on short-term
debt to fill its coffers rather than the
long-term bond. I am curious though
about what the Fed can possibly say to
give a better guide at a time when
they're under so much scrutiny and
basically the status quo. hold two
descents, first governor two governor's
descent since 1993 and kick the can to
September.
>> Get to September, two CPI reports later,
two payrolls reports later. Is that
enough information for the chairman to
get a consensus about what to do next?
>> The key issue for them is to really
understand consumer demand and how it
responds to potential price hikes. If
CPI does go up as expected, the one time
price shock that a lot of people are
talking about from tariffs, how do
consumers handle it? and they're going
to be gauging that too. It's not quite
as simple as how do you look through
this? It's does consumer demand hold up
and accept higher prices or is there
that price sensitivity that causes
companies to kind of accept more from
the margins, push it back onto suppliers
and really have a shelf life for those
price increases?
>> That's why emphasis in a news conference
is really important. Will the chairman
put equal emphasis on the firmer goods
prices we've seen and are expecting over
the next few months as he would on the
softer services prices we've seen
recently? If you put equal emphasis on
both then maybe you can say we're
open-minded about the situation. But if
you choose to overweight one versus the
other, that's going to be interesting to
read through what that means for policy,
>> especially because policy will be set by
him maybe for a couple of months more
but not by him maybe next year. And
others in the committee clearly are
putting the emphasis elsewhere. We
certainly heard that from Chris Waller,
but we also are hearing that from some
regional Fed presidents as well. And I
do have to say the fact that Treasury
Secretary Scott Besset talked about how
they were considering some regional Fed
presidents as well potentially for the
seat of the chair. There is a question
about whether there's going to be more
disscent represented here and whether
there will be more emphasis on some of
the services, inflation, and consumer
push back to price increases.
>> The formal process to replace Chairman
Pal is underway. Equity futures on the
S&P positive by a tenth of 1%. Coming up
this hour, Joe Mato of Newberger Berman
as stock snapper six day winner streak.
We'll catch up with Schweater Kajura of
Wolf Research previewing earnings from
Meta. Plus, Blake Gwyn of RBC reacting
to this morning's data and the refunding
announcement in about 27 minutes time.
We begin this hour with Stock Steady
ahead of the Fed decision at 2 p.m.
Eastern time. Joe Amato of Newberger
Burman writing, "Microeconomic policy
supports a soft landing scenario as
inflationary pressures continue to
soften. We believe the Fed has more
flexibility to ease policy. Joe joins us
now for more. Joe, good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> How much flexibility does the chairman
have later on this afternoon?
>> Well, he's got a couple of his uh team
members who are dissenting. So, that uh
that puts I think him in a little bit
more of an awkward awkward spot, but but
I think the Fed has been in a process to
normalize rates over the course of the
last period of time and it got derailed
a bit by of course the tariff
announcement. So, I think there's still
a movement toward uh toward that
normalization process, which we think
they're going to get back on track on.
We think uh there'll probably be a
couple of cuts this year, not today of
course, but but probably in September
and later in the year, uh reflecting the
fact that uh inflation, while edging up
a bit, has still been under control. And
the labor market, while again solid,
still showing some signs of weakening.
The number coming in Friday is going to
be one of the lower numbers we've had
over the course of the last number of
months. How much is a bullishness in
risk assets predicated on this idea that
there will be two rate cuts uh from the
Federal Reserve in 2025?
>> I I don't know that broad market
bullishness has got to be driven by rate
cuts. I think you have within the
internals if you think about small caps.
So small caps I think do need to see a
movement toward lower rates and rate
cuts and that historically has been sort
of a catalyst for small caps to to
rally. But I think what we've seen over
the last number of months is the hard
data has held up well broadly. We've
gotten some good news on tariffs off of
course the panicky early April
announcements and I think the markets
reacted to that and many businesses are
are responding quite dynamically to this
issue of tariffs and and maintaining
margins. We're going to see a little bit
of margin pressure in this second
quarter, but margins are still at pretty
high levels remarkably because tariffs
have been in place for a number of
months now. So it raises the question
about earlier this year how so many
people wrote off the United States as
being the biggest loser from some of
these tariffs and suddenly people are
coming around to this idea that maybe
that was too fast. Do you think that
sort of the Fed is a sideshow to really
the crux of who is going to bear the
brunt of it and our US companies showing
in all of these earnings reports time
and again they're doing just fine better
in fact than those in Europe?
>> I I don't think the Fed's ever a
sideshow. So, but but as it relates to
it might be today the notion of of of
tariffs, you have three ways it can go,
right? You either put price increases to
customers and they eat it.
>> You put a little, you know, you eat it
as a company and pressures margins or
suppliers eat it. So, it probably ends
up being a combination that we've seen
inflation tick up a little bit. There's
signs of that, right? In the last
inflation report, particularly around
things like apparel and home
furnishings. You see the margin pressure
I referenced and then you know we don't
really have transparency to supplier
income statements per se but you know
there's probably some pressure going on
there as well and remember goods are
only a portion of the inflation CPI
number. It's not the full number and
like you referenced just before right
services have been softer than expected.
>> I think Lisa was attempting to get you
to defend your overweight in European
equities.
>> So let's be more direct when you defend
your overweight in European equities.
We've moved we moved early in the year
to a theme of broadening out right us
certainly had you know was the major
driver of markets over the course of the
last number of years but we did think
there'd be a broadening out and that
broadening out would include small caps
value non US right we're very bullish on
Japan Europe we think with fiscal
stimulus particularly out of Germany I
think is going to uh show improvement
and the relative valuations were
attractive so we we upgraded our
developed markets outside the US which
would include of course Europe and Japan
And so we're we're sticking with that.
We we didn't we're not underweight US
because US still has uh so many
competitive uh strengths particularly
the tech sector. Like if you look at
this second quarter earnings S&P 500
earnings Xtech will be flat. Tech's up
17%.
>> Yeah. But what's Europe blends to up
seven whatever the number comes.
>> But what's Europe's tech? It's not
weight loss drugs anymore. No.
>> Europe is a more cyclical economy. So if
you get higher nominal growth rate
spurred by they have lowered rates, you
get some fiscal stimulus, the cyclical
nature of Europe's economy will improve
and you have the relative value
differential from a valuation
standpoint. To me, it's not necessarily
a long-term secular or strategic
allocation per se. it was more of I
don't want to call it a trade but it was
more of an intermediate term um
opportunity
>> which is one thing that we've seen with
respect to the dollar and sudden
strengthening on the back of some of the
announcement that we've heard with the
EU and European Union and how the tariff
agreement kind of got tied and suddenly
this realization maybe there'll be a
little pain in Europe and I just wonder
if you see a cheapening in European
assets at this point is that a buying
opportunity or is that a sign that this
trade is over?
Well, I I think I think it represents a
buying opportunity. You know, we're not
we're not looking for opportunities that
last a month or two, right, in the
context of allocating it to clients. So,
we're looking for something that has
some legs to it. We we think there I
mean the amount of fiscal stimulus
that's going to go into the ground in
Germany is massive relative to the size
of that economy and the European economy
and we haven't seen that in a long long
time. So, I think that does have some
legs to it in terms of the opportunity.
the the dollar took a very significant
pullback, right? So that's rare to see
it that you know move that fast that
that much. We still think the dollar
will grind lower over time, but because
US hard data has held up and rates have
probably stayed up higher a little
longer than expected, the dollar has
come back.
>> Are you expecting any any adverse
developments in bond markets in Europe
that might hold back that equity story?
>> We we we we do worry a bit about that,
right? You know, if you look at the
fiscal
situations of different countries in
Europe, while Germany has lots of room
to stimulate, there are other countries
in the region that don't, you know, from
in terms of what their local bond
markets are. So, we are watching that
closely in terms of the the the spreads
in whether it's, you know, Italian bonds
versus bonds or or versus treasuries or
what have you. But I think they have
enough room right now to to stimulate.
>> So, how do you play the European story
at the moment? Someone might look at
this situation and say, "Okay, by an ETF
that tracks the Euro stocks 50. Is that
the way to do it or is there a better
way to do this?
>> Well, we're an active manager, right?
So, we we we have strategies that manage
u u you know, European stocks or what
have you. So, we're looking at
highquality global companies that happen
to be doiciled in Europe that have
flexibility
uh will get some benefit from a local
economy being stimulated, but you know,
we're still looking for quality
companies that have global reach. That
overweight of course Japan and Europe
not on India this just dropping in from
the president of the United States just
moments ago. India will be paying a
tariff of 25%. This just dropping from
the president just moments ago.
>> Yeah. A huge disappointment for Narendra
Modi given the fact that they were
looking for something closer to that 19%
that we saw from Thailand. It raises
this issue that we were talking about
earlier. What were the main sticking
points that ended up with a tariff
agreement that was substantially higher
than the region expected and frankly
something that a lot of retailers in
particular are going to have to factor
in if they move their manufacturing
there and produced a lot of textiles in
particular.
>> This from the president the statement
just dropping just moments ago. Remember
while India is our friend. We have over
the years done relatively little
business with them because their tariffs
are far too high. The president goes on
to say among the highest in the world
and they have the most strenuous and
obnoxious non-monetary trade barriers of
any country at 25% tariff for India.
>> Yeah. He also went on to mention Russia
and saying that India has always bought
a vast majority of their military
equipment from Russia. They also are
some big energy buyers from Russia.
Suddenly, this goes back to what we were
talking about earlier. This is a key
negotiating tool. the geopolitical
positioning, what the relationship is
with different countries and Russia, how
much they are going to connect with
China. That is all part of the tariff
negotiation in a very different way than
it but than previous years.
>> That's the latest on trade this morning.
Joe, it's good to see you. Thanks for
dropping by. Thank you, sir. Joe Mardo
there of New Ber Burman. Let's get you
an update on stories worldwide,
including on trade with your Bloomberg
brief is Yahara. Hey, Yahara.
>> Exactly, John. The US and China have
wrapped up two days of talks in
Stockholm. The Chinese trade negotiator
says they agreed to extend their 90-day
tariff truce, but Treasury Secretary
Scott Bessant says the Chinese may have
jumped the gun a bit. Bessant says
extending the pause another 90 days
could be an option, but the final
decision would be up to President Trump.
Meanwhile, Gucci's sales plunge in the
second quarter as shoppers turned away
from Caring's biggest brand. The 25%
decline at the Italian label matched
analyst estimates. Gucci does have a new
artistic director, but he has yet to
unveil his debut collection. His
predecessor lasted only 2 years in the
job. Caring will also see a new CEO
arrive in midepptember.
And JP Morgan Chase and Coinbase have
signed a deal that will let customers
directly link bank accounts to crypto
wallets starting next year. This move
follows a recent announcement from JP
Morgan that it will charge fintech
companies from accessing customers
information. Users will also be able to
fund Coinbase with Chase credit card
cards and rewards points. That's your
Bloomberg brief. John
>> Yhara, thank you. More from Yihara in
about 30 minutes time. Up next, the
morning calls. Plus, Schwedik Jura of
Wolf Research previewing earnings from
Meta. And we'll have the latest ADP
employment report from New York. This is
blimpack.
[Music]
Unless they signal that the inflation
data they got a couple weeks ago
actually changes their thinking and
their thought process on the path path
of rates. I think you know the mark this
is going to try to be a nothing done
type event. There's always a risk and I
think the risk here is that they skew a
little bit more hawkish. unemployment
rate has been the most important data
point you get you know for for a while
now if you get the unemployment rate
rising up to around four and a half%
that in our view a couple rate cuts is
not nearly enough and that'll put a lot
of pressure on the Fed to cut more
aggressively no sign of that this
morning the ADP report just dropping
it's an upside surprise 104 104,000
against an estimate in our survey of 76
let's get you an update with Mike McKe
good morning Mike
>> good morning John well it was a negative
33,000 last month. So ADP not quite in
line with what we're getting from the
Bureau of Labor Statistics. So we'll see
uh what happens on Friday. But uh the
numbers underneath the categories
themselves are kind of interesting.
7,000 jobs created in manufacturing and
15,000 in construction. Both of those
were low last time from the BLS. service
providing jobs were up 74,000
including 46,000 in leisure and
hospitality. Now that would probably
because be because of seasonal factors
of kids getting summer jobs, but we've
been hearing a lot about how there
aren't any this year. So, it's going to
be very interesting to see how that
breaks down. A loss of 38,000 jobs in
health care and social services. That's
the big category that's been growing
forever in the BLS numbers. So some
interesting uh sectoral numbers from the
ADP. Also they do track uh pay gains and
those who uh stayed in their current job
got increases of 4.4% and those who left
their jobs and got new ones had
increases of 7%. Uh this is of course as
always the most important indicator of
them all for Lisa except for anything
else that comes out.
>> Mike McKe she gets very excited about
ADP. You know that, Mike. Thank you. And
the quarterly refunding announcement at
8:30 Eastern time.
>> Well, I I am very excited for the
quarterly refunding announcement. It's
unclear what to do with this since it
seems like markets aren't really taking
that much of a signal from this. You're
not seeing a huge response in markets
and people tend to not see the
correlation with this and what we get on
Friday. Nonetheless, I think about what
Neila Richardson says, which is this is
not a market that's falling out of bed.
you are seeing signs of potential
weakness, particularly with that with
those new with those new graduates or
teenagers looking for a summer job, but
this isn't exactly something that's
fallen off a cliff.
>> We've got a lot to get through this
morning. It's not just the data. We'll
get more of that at 8:30 Eastern time.
We need to talk about trade. This is
quite a statement from the president of
the United States. It came just moments
ago. So, if you're just tuning in, I'll
share it with you now and read it out
verbatim. While India is our friend, we
have over the years done relatively
little business with them because their
tariffs are far too high. The president
goes on to say among the highest in the
world and they have the most strenuous
and obnoxious nonmonetary trade barriers
of any country. Also, and this is the
additional point the president makes
this morning, they have always bought a
vast majority of their military
equipment from Russia and are Russia's
largest buyer of energy along with China
at a time when everyone wants Russia to
stop the killing in Ukraine. All things
not good, India will therefore be paying
a tariff of 25% plus a penalty for the
above starting on August 1st. Thank you
for your attention to this matter
>> and it goes to the heart of how Russia
has been an increasing part of his
negotiations trying to tighten the
screws there and really coming as a
surprise at a time when a lot of people
were expecting the end tariff rate in
India to be something around 20 or 19%.
So highlighting a change in tone around
Russia and a change in tone around what
the parameters are of negotiation for
some of these new trade agreements
>> going into that deadline this coming
Friday. If you are just joining us
again, look at futures this morning.
We're doing okay. We're positive by
about a tenth of 1% on the S&P. That's
the price action. Here are some morning
calls. First up, City downgrading Union
Pacific to neutral, citing questions
over its deal to buy North Southern.
Your second call from JP Morgan raising
its price target on Boeing to 251,
noting its solid second quarter results.
And finally, Morgan Stanley raising its
price target on Nvidia to 200, citing
exceptional AI strength. Let's stick
with big tech. Investors awaiting the
next round of Max 7 earnings. Meta
Microsoft report after the closing bell.
Ed Lllo joins us now with more. Good
morning, Ed.
>> Yeah, good morning, John. It's going to
be an evening where we tried to do a lot
of math, right, with a a real focus on
capital expenditures. We know the story.
Meta and Microsoft both have told us
that in this fiscal year there will be
capital expenditures of just north of
$70 billion. But the thing that the Wall
Street is trying to work out is like
what's the math coming out the other
end? So in the quarter that each company
is going to report, Microsoft's expected
to tell us that capital expenditures
were up 30% from a year ago, but overall
revenue growth 14%. Meta is expected to
tell us that capital expenditures are up
100% from a year ago, but revenue up
15%. So that's going to be how a
question of how much patience and
tolerance the market has for each of
these companies to say, well, actually,
we're seeing that translation of AI
investment into topline growth.
Microsoft's a little easier right with
Azure because they often tell us our
cloud growth was 30 34% is the
expectation for this quarter of that
there was X contribution in terms of
percentage points from AI in Meta's case
it's a little bit less easy to to
calculate and understand so then you go
to management and how much you believe
them which is the fun of having an
earnings call uh in quick succession
looking forward to your coverage Ed
later on this morning on Bloomberg
Technology and then this afternoon when
we actually get those numbers from big
Looking ahead to Meta, Shredder Kajura
of Wolf Research reiterating her
outperform rating on Meta with a 750
price target saying we expect Q2 revenue
to beat Street estimates in part driven
by FX tailwinds and resilient demand.
Schweter joins us now for more. Schwer,
welcome to the show. Let's talk about
what you are expecting beyond just the
numbers in Q2. What about the outlook
for spending from Meta?
I think we might have a connection
problem with Schweda Kajura of Wolf
Research with the microphone. Brema,
>> can you hear me?
>> Yes.
>> I think we've got the microphone up now.
Shredder, carry on, please. If you heard
me, I didn't hear you. So, if you
remember the question, please.
>> I did hear you.
>> Help me out.
>> Yes, I did hear you. And and, uh, good
morning and thanks for having me. Um,
well, uh, yes, beyond the beyond the
topline numbers, even though we expect a
beat on the expenditure side, we think
the number one focus is going to be opex
and capex. And I think Ed before me was
just talking about that we actually do
expect Meta to even potentially raise
their capex guide one more time to even
above 72 billion for this year. And more
importantly, investors will be looking
for how they talk about elevated capex
spend over the next few years. We
actually have almost a hundred billion
of capex for next year. maybe 90 to 100
billion is where most of the investors
are even though consensus is calling for
significantly lower number. I think that
those numbers are going to go up and
that is a key question.
>> The other issue is how much they're
spending and on what right? I mean they
are giving these hund00 million bonuses
to try to attract a lot of AI talent.
What's the vision here? The metaverse
was one thing. Is it just to become more
efficient? Is it to have the best kind
of targeted advertising? or is there
some sort of bigger sea change goal that
will redefine this company once again?
>> Well, Meta is trying to do quite a few
things with AI. Uh on one hand, it's
their core platform. So both automation
of advertising in terms of content
creation and helping advertisers improve
their rorowaz and improving user
engagement for all of us to be making
more engaged videos uh so that we spend
more time on their platforms and not
only sit back and lean back sort of
engagement but also more interactive
engagement is where they're headed. On
top of that, they are also investing
more on what they call business
messaging for WhatsApp for all those
sellers. And that will need a lot more
compute in addition to directly
competing with Gemini and OpenAI with
Meta AI, their new app that they it's
standalone now that does something very
similar. And then finally, they're all
all of this coming together with their
hardware, whether it is glasses um or AR
or VR hardware. So all of this will
likely require a a significant amount of
compute which is what they're building
ahead of time.
>> Cha, I remember when we used to think
about Meta or Facebook as a social media
company and directly competing with
advertising and the like. Who are their
main competitors now?
>> Well, it is increasing. It's a great
question. It's increasingly becoming
more of an entertainment company. So
yes, it is social media and and
historically we've seen it as competing
directly with Tik Toks of the world
whether it's Tik Tok or even Pinterest
um or Snapchat but increasingly so
because of the consumption uh it is now
becoming more of an entertainment
company. even YouTube and any of the CTV
sort of uh competitors. Where do
consumers actually spend time is where
they're competing and that includes
Netflix, Amazon video, YouTube and all
other uh entertainment platforms.
>> I know you've got to run. Thanks for
that and our apologies about the
connection for thanks for being here.
Appreciate it. Shredder Kajuri there of
Wolf Research on Meta. That stock is up
20% so far this year.
>> Yeah, a huge rebound since August 2nd,
April 2nd. Uh where are we in the year?
It goes to show how high is the bar for
the likes of Meta and Microsoft that
report after the bell today. Is it
crucial for them to show blockbuster
earnings and the promise of hopes and
dreams in terms of their capital
expenditure spend in order to maintain a
rally that has propelled the entire
stock market in the United States?
>> I know a lot of this year has been
exhausting, but it's flying by. After
the Fed decision today, there's only
three left for 2025. Yeah, and those are
going to be really important three given
the fact that this market is expecting
them to cut rates twice in that period
amid a search for the next Fed chair
which might be currently sitting in the
Fed governorship or even potentially one
of the regionals.
>> Who knows? We're going to find out in
the next several months potentially.
That decision comes later. Coming up
next, we've got some economic data
including GDP, plus a Treasury refunding
announcement. Mike McKe's going to break
down all the details in just a moment
and we'll get the reaction from Blake
Gwyn of RBC live from New York City.
You're watching Bloomberg TV
[Music]
>> live from New York City this morning.
Good morning to you all. Lots of
economic data still to come, including
the Treasury refunding announcement in
just a moment. That's all going to come
at 8:30 Eastern time. So, 15 seconds
away. The scores into that look like
this. Equity futures positive by a tenth
of 1% on the S&P on the NASDAQ 100 up by
0.1. In the bond market, the 2-year, 10
year, and 30-year yields a little bit
higher this morning. Up by two basis
points in the long up a basis point, not
even on 10 432. With the data, with the
headlines is Mike McKe. Good morning,
Mike.
Good morning, John. Well, we've got a
stronger than expected GDP number. 3%
for the second quarter initial read.
That's up from a half percent uh in the
first quarter. 2.6% was what was
forecast. Now, the uh interesting thing
of course is we've got to break that
down by h by category because we had the
trade distortions in the first quarter.
So let's look now at uh the GDP uh
personal consumption number comes in a
little weaker than anticipated. It's up
by 1.4% the forecast was for 1 and a.5%.
Uh gross domestic private investment
non-residential fixed 1.9%. That's down
from 10.3%. A lot of anecdotal reports
that businesses were holding off on
spending and it looks like that indeed
is what happened. uh equipment spending
fell from 20 a 23.7% gain to a 4.8% gain
during the month and uh intellectual
property software etc uh rises only a
little bit 6.4% from 6%. uh looking at
net exports uh which should at least
provided a big jump in the Atlanta Fed
GDP. Now uh last week uh or last uh
reading exports were down 1.8%
imports were down 30.3%
they had risen by 37.9%
in the first quarter. So we know this is
basically an import story and also an
inventory story. inventories down
uh 85
185.5
uh billion dollars. They were up 151.6
billion in the first quarter. So you've
got inventories working against you.
You've got trade working uh for you and
it looks like uh between the two we
really get a stronger than expected
report because spending is not as strong
as it was anticipated. And uh the key
number for us today is going to be real
final sales to domestic purchasers. And
right now uh we're looking to uh see
exactly what we got there uh at an
annualized rate uh 1.1% down from 1 and
a.5% uh 1.9% for uh domestic purchasers
in the first quarter.
>> Mike, we'll let you look through all of
those numbers from the GDP. I do want
just one word though from you on the
Treasury refunding announcement. That
quarterly refunding announcement's been
hotly anticipated. It looks like they
are maintaining the total volume of
sales, but they are doubling their
buybacks of longerterm bonds. What is
the significance of this? Can you tell
us the expectations versus the actuality
of the way the US is going to finance
its debt?
>> Well, they had anticipated increasing
the number of buybacks. What they're
trying to do is take old off the-run
bonds out of the market because nobody
really wants to trade those. And so they
buy them back and then if you're looking
for bonds, you've got to get uh newer
ones and uh that gives you a better
price discovery. So they're going to
four per quarter. Uh the other big issue
was what are they going to do about
bills? Because Scott Besson's been
critical of the Yellen Treasury terming
out their sales. They're going to
increase their shortdated bill auction
sizes in August and October, but they
say that is because they are rebuilding
the Treasury General account now that we
have uh spent a lot of uh that money on
the uh debt ceiling since that's been
fixed. They're going to do that. And
they don't expect any other changes to
auction sizes for the next several
quarters. 58 billion this time in
three-year notes, 42 in 10, and 25 in
30s. It's a slight increase in 10 and
30s, but then they anticipate keeping
that level for a couple of quarters.
>> Mike McKe, thank you, sir. Stay close.
Bon tire up three basis points on 10 to
435 on 30s, up three basis points to
489. Just unwinding some of the rally we
saw develop in yesterday's session.
>> And part of that was on the expectation
that there would be a real sort of uh
retracement from issuing on the long
end. In other words, issuing bonds more
on the front end and even reducing some
of the bond issuance on the long end.
You didn't see that today. Hard to parse
through whether the move is more on that
or the fact that we got above the
expectations when it came to GDP.
>> Blake Gwyn of RBC Capital Markets joins
us around the table. Blake, good
morning.
>> Morning.
>> This was a big focus for you this
morning.
>> Absolutely. Yeah, I think so what we got
here just looking at the headlines and
obviously when I get back to my desk
I'll be looking through some of the
details a little bit more closely but I
think this is pretty close to what we
thought was the consensus or priced in
um you know the priced in outcome that
this would be the most market neutral.
Uh I think you know just what we've seen
initially bond markets seem to be taking
this pretty well in stride. Uh, I think
if you would have gotten a more
aggressive communication around
shortening the WHAM, if you would have
changed some of that forward guidance
where Treasury is kind of committing to
not um, you know, to not increase
coupons over the next several quarters.
If you'd gotten some change there, maybe
uh, we could have seen some follow on
flattening, some follow-on rally um, to
what we saw yesterday, but I don't think
this is enough to really carry that
through.
>> There are certain tools available to
Treasury. Lisa mentioned one boost in
the buybacks in 10, 20, and 20 to 30year
buckets. What does that mean ultimately?
Yeah. No, this this is I think been the
biggest focus for us in a lot of our
conversations with clients because I
think there's a real um almost desire in
markets to try to make these buybacks
into a QE type of program that we saw
the Fed do. But there's some very very
big differences. So they doubled the
size here. Um you know they were in the
long end so tens to 30-year buckets. Uh
they were buying about 8 billion a
quarter. When you look back at the last
QE program we had from the Fed. I mean
they were buying 40 billion a quarter in
10 to 30 year 40ish. Um so much bigger
in size. So even with this doubling,
we're still far from the size of what
they were buying in the long end uh from
the Fed. But I think the bigger issue is
really the mechanics by which they buy
it. And what I mean by that is the Fed
is a completely price insensitive buyer
that had to buy those securities every
quarter. So if you have a big price
insensitive buyer that come hell or high
water has to buy 40 billion every
quarter it's very different from what I
think these buybacks represent which is
somebody who's saying you know we may
buy up to this amount if things cheapen
up enough if things look attractive
enough um we'll come in but that's more
a cap we could also buy zero. So if you
look at those two different scenarios
and and how you position for that and
how it should impact markets how it
should impact yield levels in the curve
very very different things. So right now
we're seeing the refunding announcement
not necessarily causing the bulk of the
move. It's small move as it is in terms
of yields just ticking higher. It really
is coming on the better than expected
economic data. Are you saying that
essentially if the Treasury remains pat
things will remain as such but if they
do start to issue more on the front end
at the expense of the long end that
could cause a pretty substantial rally.
Is that what you're saying? Well, I
think there's varying degrees of this,
right? Because I think what they're
already doing in a way is kind of
communicating that they're going to
focus more on front end issuance because
saying that they're not going to
increase coupons for several quarters
now. Um, you're getting to the point
where given the financing needs that are
coming, if you're not doing coupons in
the next couple quarters, it means
you're leaning more heavily on bill
issuance on the front end. So, um, even
if they do nothing, even if they just
maintain this kind of forward guidance
that we're not changing coupons, you're
going to see bills and shortdated
issuance become a bigger part of the
package. uh just just naturally. So I
think what markets wanted to see was
something less passive and a little more
active where Treasury is actually saying
no, we are doing this. We're shifting.
We're you know going to use these
buybacks more like a QE program to
really push down on yields to push down
on the curve. But that's not what we got
today.
>> We've gotten a taste of the summer of
the pain trade. The idea that all of the
consensus bets in the first half of the
year were challenged over the past
couple of idea uh of days. The idea that
you could short the dollar long the
euro. The idea that long rates were
going to keep rising. the idea that
Europe would keep outperforming over the
United States, does that have legs
because of the dynamic that you just
said in the rate market in particular
that you could see an ongoing flattening
rather than that steep?
>> So, so the way we've been kind of
viewing it is rather than, you know,
this these kind of issuance discussions
really being a force to push yields
lower or to push the curve flatter right
now, the way I'm viewing is it's really
reinforcing the kind of ceiling that
we've seen. Um, as we've seen basically
since April, really the whole year,
anytime 30-year yields have surpassed
5%, they very quickly trade back down.
Within a session or two, they're back
down below 30. So, we're getting this
really kind of rangebound trading. And I
think having this discussion around Wham
and knowing that the Fed uh knowing that
the Treasury seems to be focusing more
on front end issuance, even if it's just
passively, um, I think that's enough to
keep this kind of soft ceiling on yields
and that's probably reinforcing the top
end of the range that we've been trading
in. Now, if they go more active, if they
really start to communicate a little bit
more, that's where we start to see the
downward pressure and really breaking
out of the bottom side of those of those
ranges.
>> Second quarter GDP out just a moment ago
comes in at an upside surprise of 3%.
The estimate in our survey was 2.6. Mike
McKe still standing by. Mike, just to
dig deeper into the economic data for
those of you out there that missed all
of this, Mike, just go through it again.
How much are the net export numbers
flattering the overall story for the US
economy?
>> Oh, tremendous amount, John. We saw net
exports uh rise by uh or fall rather by
a billion26 million. That's down from
billion359
million and the contribution to the
change by net exports was almost 5%. So
uh the 5% subtracted uh from uh quite a
bit from what we saw and of course we
had a big rise in the first quarter.
Also though the surprise is the slowdown
in spending on both the consumer and
business side uh the uh personal
consumption is uh up by just 1.4%. Now,
that's a little bit stronger than the
first quarter, but it is uh relatively
weak compared to what we were seeing.
And non-residential fixed investment
falls from 10.3% in the first quarter to
1.9%.
Uh on a uh six-month basis, which is
kind of the way you'd want to look at it
given the trade and inventory
distortions we've seen. Uh the first 6
months, first half of 2025, growth has
averaged 1 and a4%. In the last six
months of 2024, growth averaged two and
three/4ers percent. So, a significant
slowdown in the economy over the last 6
months. The president's critics will say
it's his fault for the tariffs. Uh the
president will look at the topline
number, I'm sure, and talk about nominal
growth being stronger.
>> He's got some thoughts on that already.
Hey, Mike. Thank you, sir. Mike McKe
with the latest. is not an argument you
often hear on Wall Street. The growth is
so good, cut interest rates. But it's an
argument we're getting right now from
the president. Second quarter GDP just
out 3% way better than expected. Too
late. Chairman Pal must now lower the
rate. No inflation. Let people buy and
refinance their homes. There is this
theory coming out of the White House
that sovereign risk developed market
sovereign risk should be equated to
credit risk where the higher the rating
of a country not a company should get a
lower benchmark borrowing rate akin to
the likes of Microsoft or Apple or
Johnson one of these major uh companies
that have lower borrowing costs relative
to their peers. That is not the way
traditionally it has been viewed. It
traditionally has been viewed as a rate
for developed markets tied to inflation
and growth that should be higher with
faster growth. And yet, you know, it's a
sort of unconventional take on the
economics of today.
>> Blake, final question. How much of a
snooze is this meeting going to be
today?
>> I don't have high hopes. Let's be
honest. We're we're watching to see if
there's any dissense, but you know, how
exciting can that really be?
>> I'll make it easy for you and leave it
there. Blake Gwen of RBC. Blake, thank
you, sir. Appreciate it. That decision
coming up later on this afternoon, the
news conference at 2:30. Are we going to
try and make it exciting later this
afternoon?
>> Make it exciting. It just inherently has
such drama and excitement. You know, we
could just keep repeating that clip of
Donald Trump and Jay Powell with their
hard hats on and just say, you know,
$3.1 billion. I don't see that anywhere.
I don't think so. You know, we just
replay that over.
>> It's a fantastic impersonation you've
got going there.
>> I'm really doing really well today.
>> People want to hear you sing again, too.
>> Let's move on.
>> We missed that from earlier on this
morning.
>> Let's give you an update on stories
elsewhere this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Here's your Hira. Hey,
Hyra. Hi John. President Donald Trump
says India will pay a tariff of 25%
starting on Friday. In a post on Truth
Social, he wrote, "While India is our
friend, we have done relatively little
business with them because their tariffs
are far too high." Trump also suggesting
he would add an additional penalty due
to India buying Russian oil. Meanwhile,
Palo Alto Networks agreed to buy Israeli
firm Cyber Arc for $25 billion in cash
and stock. The deal gives Palo Alto a
suite of identity security tools which
help users determine who should have
access rights within an organization
according to the statement.
And Craft Times reported sales and
profit that topped estimate second
quarter organic revenue fell 2% less
than the 2.8% drop that analysts had
expected. The package foods giant
reiterated its outlook pointing to
progress in winning over inflationwary
shopper. Shares are up half a percent.
That's your Bloomberg brief. John
>> Yhara, thank you. Thanks for this
morning. Up next on the program, we'll
set you up for the day ahead. Plus,
we'll catch up with Claudia Sm of New
Sentry Advisers on potential descent on
the FOMC from New York. You're watching
Bloomberg TV.
[Music]
I think the policy rates a little bit
high for the current environment and so
I do think that uh the committee could
set up a September rate cut uh at this
meeting. Uh I think the risk for the
chair is probably that uh that gets
priced in uh even more than it already
is and and he can't preserve enough
optionality uh going into September.
>> That was the former St. Louis Fed
President Jim Bard speaking to us
earlier on in anticipation of a Federal
Reserve decision later on this
afternoon. We've got some data to
wrestle with this on GDP. Really the GDP
guessing game of the year so far has all
been about navigating trade. This came
from Kevin Gordon at Charles Swap just
moments ago. He writes in, "First
quarter net exports take the biggest
bite out of GDP in history. Second
quarter net exports make the largest
contribution to GDP in history." That's
the situation of the last 6 months.
>> Yeah. How much is it a wash?
Essentially, you've just seen massive
distortions in data as people bring
forward their exports, their imports,
and then have a lot of inventory. These
are the big questions as we grapple with
trade deadlines and trying to understand
the relevance of a lot of economic data.
>> The open and bound just around the
corner, 42 minutes away. Equity futures
positive by a tenth of 1%. With your
morning movers is Danny Ber. Hey Danny.
>> Hey John. We're in the thick of earning
season. Humanana among them this
morning. It's a rare health insurer that
has upped its guidance for the year.
Basically everybody else has been
cutting it, grappling with higher med
medicare costs, med medical costs.
Humanana on the other hand says hey
costs have come in in line. It also saw
better business when it comes to their
pharmacy and their Medicare Advantage
programs. Those shares up 10%. We also
had Starbucks earnings after the bell
yesterday. It did miss on a couple
metrics, but it's all about the
turnaround. CEO Brian Nichols saying it
is ahead of schedule and that they will
be unleashing a wave of innovation in
2026. So, get ready for your protein
cold foams and more cissants at
Starbucks locations. Finally, Visa
wrapping up the earnings here. Those
shares though down 2.6%. It did beat but
the issue with Visa is that they left
their guidance unchanged. Analysts had
been expecting them to raise their
guidance. So disappointment there but
Visa CEO going on to say that it is a
cons that it is a consumer who is
resilient and continuing to spend. John
>> Danny thank you. Thanks for this
morning. We'll continue to count you
down to the up and bow. Lots happening
in your trading diary at 2 p.m. Eastern.
A Fed rate decision. 30 minutes later a
chairman pound news conference after the
closing bow. Earnings from Meta from
Microsoft. On to tomorrow, core PCE and
another round of jobless claims, plus
results from Apple and Amazon on Friday,
the payrolls report and the president's
self-imposed tariff deadline. A lot to
look forward to as we turn back to the
Federal Reserve. Claudia S of New
Century Advisers writing the possibility
of two descents from governors Waller
and Bowman is notable in terms of Fed
history, but policy moves on agreement.
Claudia joins us now for more. Claudia,
welcome to the program. What kind of
agreement can we make today at the
Federal Reserve? What can we agree on?
>> I think it'll be really interesting to
see if the committee is getting more
comfortable having more conviction in
their you know forecast that inflation
may rise this year but then you know
come back down. So I think a lot of this
discussion around what are the risks of
the persistently high inflation. We know
from Governor Chris Waller that he sees
those risks as very low and that's why
he's in favor of a cut. But is the
committee moving in that direction of
you know moderating those risks or is it
real still it are they still very much
demanding more data to get comfortable
with the idea of a rate cut?
>> Claudia what do you think and it matters
a lot what you think because the s rule
is often pointed to and was certainly uh
pointed to at the end of last year for
the 100 basis points of rate cuts in the
second half. Do you see the same cracks
that Chris Waller is seeing?
>> I don't see this. I like I can see the
cracks that he's pointing to. I maybe
don't draw as strong an inference as he
does. I do think it's time for the Fed
to really be pivoting to why are you
waiting? You know, what are you looking
for in the data? What do you need to see
with inflation, right? Like focus on
that as opposed to the well, we can
wait. We saw a lot of discussion at the
last press conference about well the
economy is solid, the labor market is
solid, so we can wait and get more data.
And I think there are sufficient signs
of of weakening and some of the the
softening the risk in the labor market.
They've been with us for a while. Like
these are not new. The low hiring rate
paired with the low layoff rate. This is
not new. And yet we do see signs of
demand softening. We saw some of this
looking at first half GDP numbers and
hiring concentrate. Like there are just
a lot of signs that this is not a labor
market that will hold up, you know,
indefinitely. And so the Fed needs to
back off some using that as its safety
blanket in terms of waiting for more
data and and recognize those risks are
out there. We hear a lot about the risk
to the inflation outlook. We should be
hearing some more about the risk to the
labor market outlook as well. There have
been a number of people who have
speculated that Fed Sher J. Powell might
take an even more hawkish approach to
policy might signal that the labor
economy is in a good place and that
they're balanced roughly in their
mandates in order to avoid accusations
of political interference that he's
getting bullied by President Trump. Do
you ascribe to any of those ideas or do
you think that that's a bit speculative?
The best way for the Fed to stay out of
the politics as much as it can is to put
its head down, parse through the data,
be transparent, right? The data don't
speak for themselves. We need to hear
how how is the FOMC interpreting the
data. What are they looking for? Like
that's the message he needs to stick
with. It's they're not going to win. The
Fed will not win if it plays politics.
Like that's just not the game that it is
well suited for, nor should it be doing
it. So I think we should just get a lot
more of their thinking and just lay it
out there. That's part of the
transparency. That's part of the
accountability that comes with the Fed
being the ones that make the decisions
about interest rates.
>> So Claudia, let's stay on the data. I I
just wonder if two CPI reports is enough
between now and September to draw
conclusions about how much tariff pass
through we'll get and how much of that
tariff pass through is going to stick
around.
>> Two more CPI prints could give us
information both on the tariff pass
through. I mean the the tariffs working
their way through the economy. This is
going to take time and we could see, you
know, ever rising tariff effects as we
go into the to the September meeting.
So, I mean, they're going to have to
have a real explanation of how you would
cut into a rising inflation environment.
But we have also seen, you know, months
of the outside of the tariffs, look at
the housing services, look at the
non-housing services. We've had some
really encouraging numbers. A few more
months of that could, you know, really
strengthen the case that underlying
inflation, set those tariffs aside,
underlying inflation is really moving
back down to target and that that is a
really important piece and two more
months of data in that direction can can
help bolster the case for a rate cut
based on the inflation risks are less.
>> Do you think they're in a position today
and through the summer to keep on saying
the labor market is solid, so we have
the luxury of waiting? Can they write
that in the statement once again this
afternoon?
>> They can write whatever they want to
write in the statement. I think it would
be misguided. I mean we again we have
seen various pieces of information about
the labor market that point to some
weakening and also if you are running an
economy with below trend growth and
that's you know focusing on consumer
spending business fixed investment kind
of the core of it you know that that
weakness does eventually show up in the
labor market and the Fed itself its
baseline forecast so shows some
weakening in the labor market this year
so it seems completely appropriate to at
least be pointing to the risk pointing
to that outlook. I mean, that's, you
know, a very reasonable thing to be
pointed out. And I think they'll be a
little flatfooted if they just keep
hanging on to the labor market is doing
just fine. Economic activity is doing
just fine because that's really I think
that's a pretty one-sided reading of the
data right now.
>> We'll see if we get that change at 2
p.m. Eastern time. Claudia, appreciate
it as always. Claudia S, New Century
Advisor. Claudia's right. Of course,
they can write whatever they want. Just
how credible is that argument still to
keep on saying the labor market is
solid, so we can wait.
>> Yeah. Well, that's one reason why. How
much do you see different views
represented? Some people see it as
solid. Other people maybe don't
necessarily see it as having that same
degree of resilience. But Claudia
mentioned there about the housing market
and how that's been a huge
disinflationary force. I wonder how they
address that as well. Uh whether they
ascribe that as some sort of leading
indicator or whether it's been a cycle
unto itself and that's clearly on the
president's mind as well when he points
to the fact that borrowing costs are too
high to buy a home. Should we take a
little break
>> and then come back?
>> Come back later on this afternoon.
>> I'm eager.
>> Special coverage of the Fed's decision
just around the corner. Bob Michael of
JP Morgan, Dian Swunk of KPMG, the
former New York Fed President Bill
Dudley, Jeff Rosenberg of Black Rockck.
Coming up tomorrow, Chris Verona
Strategus, Mirror Panda of JP Morgan,
the former Kansas City Fed President
Esther George, and Walt Pisik of
Lightshed Partners from New York City
this morning. Good morning. This was
Bloomberg Surveillance.
[Music]